https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0050083/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_5::12 angry men (1957) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) 12 angry men 19571957 pgpg 1h 36m imdb rating 9.0/10 758k your rating rate popularity 300 6 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:14 2 videos 99+ photos crimedrama the jury in a new york city murder trial is frustrated by a single member whose skeptical caution forces them to more carefully consider the evidence before jumping to a hasty verdict.the jury in a new york city murder trial is frustrated by a single member whose skeptical caution forces them to more carefully consider the evidence before jumping to a hasty verdict.the jury in a new york city murder trial is frustrated by a single member whose skeptical caution forces them to more carefully consider the evidence before jumping to a hasty verdict. imdb rating 9.0/10 758k your rating rate popularity 300 6 director sidney lumet writer reginald rose(story) stars henry fonda lee j. cobb martin balsam top credits director sidney lumet writer reginald rose(story) stars henry fonda lee j. cobb martin balsam see production, box office & company info 1.9kuser reviews 150critic reviews 96metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #5 nominated for 3 oscars 17 wins & 13 nominations total videos2 trailer 2:14 official trailer trailer 1:36 12 angry men photos114 top cast edit henry fonda juror 8as juror 8 lee j. cobb juror 3as juror 3 martin balsam juror 1as juror 1 john fiedler juror 2as juror 2 e.g. marshall juror 4as juror 4 jack klugman juror 5as juror 5 edward binns juror 6as juror 6 jack warden juror 7as juror 7 joseph sweeney juror 9as juror 9 ed begley juror 10as juror 10 george voskovec juror 11as juror 11 robert webber juror 12as juror 12 rudy bond judgeas judge (uncredited) tom gorman stenographeras stenographer (uncredited) james kelly guardas guard (uncredited) billy nelson court clerkas court clerk (uncredited) john savoca the accusedas the accused (uncredited) walter stocker man waiting for elevatoras man waiting for elevator (uncredited) director sidney lumet writer reginald rose(story) (screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 9.0 schindler's list watch options 9.0 the godfather: part ii watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 9.2 the godfather watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options storyline edit the defense and the prosecution have rested, and the jury is filing into the jury room to decide if a young man is guilty or innocent of murdering his father. what begins as an open-and-shut case of murder soon becomes a detective story that presents a succession of clues creating doubt, and a mini-drama of each of the jurors' prejudices and preconceptions about the trial, the accused, and each other. based on the play, all of the action takes place on the stage of the jury room. ?pjk <petesid@vnet.ibm.com> jurydialogue drivencourtroomsingle set productiontrial91 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines life is in their hands -- death is on their minds! genres crime drama certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia at the beginning of the film, the cameras are all positioned above eye level and mounted with wide-angle lenses to give the appearance of greater distance between the subjects. as the film progresses the cameras slip down to eye level. by the end of the film, nearly all of it is shot below eye level, in close-up and with telephoto lenses to increase the encroaching sense of claustrophobia. goofs within the last half hour of the movie, the clock on the wall in the jury room can be seen indicating 6:15. several minutes later, e.g. marshall states that it is "a quarter after six". several minutes after that, the wall clock is seen again, but still shows 6:15. still later, when lee j. cobb leans over the table after he tears up the snapshot from his wallet, his watch can be seen indicating 5:10. quotes juror #8: let me ask you this: do you really think the boy'd shout out a thing like that so the whole neighborhood could hear him? i don't think so - he's much too bright for that. juror #10: bright? he's a common ignorant slob. he don't even speak good english. juror #11: [who has a foreign accent] he *doesn't* speak good english. crazy credits at the end of the film, the actors are billed in order of their juror numbers; thus henry fonda, although the star of the film, appears 8th. connections edited into voskovec & werich - paraleln? osudy (2012) soundtracks dance of the cuckoos (uncredited) music by marvin hatley portion whistled by jack warden user reviews1.9k review top review 10/10 masterpiece! the only thing i can write as an average joe who watches movies simply to be entertained or see a story being told, is that i watched 12 men argue in a room for more than an hour and i couldn't look away from the screen. simply a masterpiece! helpful?98 2 navidveradi apr 24, 2019 faq1 where the movie was shot? details edit release date april 13, 1957 (canada) country of origin united states language english also known as douze hommes en col?re filming locations new york county courthouse - 60 centre street, new york city, new york, usa production company orion-nova productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $350,000 (estimated) gross worldwide $955 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 36 minutes color black and white sound mix mono aspect ratio 1.66 : 1 related news why henry fonda walked out of the room the first time he saw 12 angry men mar 21slash film amazon officially closes $8.5 billion buy of mgm mar 17indiewire contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of 12 angry men (1957) in spain? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
