https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0078748/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_49::alien (1979) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) alien 19791979 rr 1h 57m imdb rating 8.5/10 848k your rating rate popularity 264 2 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:05 9 videos 99+ photos horrorsci-fi the crew of a commercial spacecraft encounter a deadly lifeform after investigating an unknown transmission.the crew of a commercial spacecraft encounter a deadly lifeform after investigating an unknown transmission.the crew of a commercial spacecraft encounter a deadly lifeform after investigating an unknown transmission. imdb rating 8.5/10 848k your rating rate popularity 264 2 director ridley scott writers dan o'bannon(screenplay by) ronald shusett(story by) stars sigourney weaver tom skerritt john hurt top credits director ridley scott writers dan o'bannon(screenplay by) ronald shusett(story by) stars sigourney weaver tom skerritt john hurt see production, box office & company info 1.6kuser reviews 318critic reviews 89metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #49 won 1 oscar 18 wins & 22 nominations total videos9 trailer 2:05 theatrical version trailer 1:06 alien clip 1:40 a guide to the films of ridley scott clip 4:04 'the platform' & future films from the imdb top 250 clip 3:47 how "carnival row" gets lovecraft right clip 1:17 alien | anniversary mashup interview 3:19 how 'alien' inspired ridley scott on "raised by wolves" video 1:56 "counterpart" executive producer jordan horowitz on the art of espionage video 1:23 the watchlist with 'la la land' producer jordan horowitz photos330 top cast edit sigourney weaver ripleyas ripley tom skerritt dallasas dallas john hurt kaneas kane veronica cartwright lambertas lambert harry dean stanton brettas brett ian holm ashas ash yaphet kotto parkeras parker bolaji badejo alienas alien helen horton motheras mother (voice) eddie powell alienas alien (uncredited) director ridley scott writers dan o'bannon(screenplay by) (story by) ronald shusett(story by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.4 aliens watch options 6.4 alien? watch options 8.6 terminator 2: judgment day watch options 6.2 alien: resurrection watch options 8.6 back to the future watch options 8.4 raiders of the lost ark watch options 8.1 the terminator watch options 8.4 the shining watch options 8.6 star wars watch options 8.7 star wars: episode v - the empire strikes back watch options 6.4 alien: covenant watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options storyline edit in the distant future, the crew of the commercial spaceship nostromo are on their way home when they pick up a distress call from a distant moon. the crew are under obligation to investigate and the spaceship descends on the moon afterwards. after a rough landing, three crew members leave the spaceship to explore the area on the moon. at the same time as they discover a hive colony of some unknown creature, the ship's computer deciphers the message to be a warning, not a distress call. when one of the eggs is disturbed, the crew realizes that they are not alone on the spaceship and they must deal with the consequences. ?blazesnakes9 alienspaceshipouter spaceminimal castmonster344 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines in space no one can hear you scream. genres horror sci-fi certificate r parents guide did you know edit trivia the blue laser lights that were used in the alien ship's egg chamber were borrowed from the who. the band was testing out the lasers for their stage show in the soundstage next door. goofs (at around 1h 35 mins) a crewman with a black panel of some kind is visible through the smoke as ripley runs through the corridors at the end of the film. quotes [last lines] ripley: final report of the commercial starship nostromo, third officer reporting. the other members of the crew - kane, lambert, parker, brett, ash, and captain dallas - are dead. cargo and ship destroyed. i should reach the frontier in about six weeks. with a little luck, the network will pick me up. this is ripley, last survivor of the nostromo, signing off. [to jonesy the cat] ripley: come on, cat. crazy credits the title of the movie is slowly created one line at a time at the top of the screen during the opening credits, starting out with the i, then the slash in a and the backslash in n, and then the vertical lines in l and e (so it looks like / i i i \). after that, the ensuing lines of each letter are added slowly one at a time until the title is fully visible. alternate versions the laserdisc release features a separate section with the scenes not included in the theatrical release. this is the new material: after being awakened from hypersleep, kane wanders out to the kitchen to prepare breakfast, he says "rise and shine lambert". the crew gathers on the bridge and listens to the signal coming from the derelict craft. lambert confronts ripley about ripley's reluctance to let them back on the ship with kane and the facehugger. lambert tells ripley, parker and brett how the face hugger got on kane. ripley radios down to parker and brett to see how they're progressing on the repairs, parker and ripley exchange tense words over the radio. after the face hugger's acid eats through a few floors, the crew returns to the med lab to check up on kane's condition. ripley sees an x-ray of kane's chest and asks ash, "what is that dark stain on kane's lung?" the rest of the crew starts asking if kane's going to live, dallas tells everyone to go back to work. after kane's death, the crew gathers around at the meal table to discuss what they're going to do with the escaped alien. brett announces the cattle-prod idea and suggests "catching" the alien in a net. longer version of brett's death. this scene had brett frozen with fear as the alien grabs his head, he yells "parker!" and then blood poors from beneath his cap. the alien lifts him up into the landing gear and ripley and parker come rushing in. parker stands where brett once was and looks up; blood drips on his shirt and then brett's cattle prod falls to parker's feet. part of a scene that involves parker, ripley and lambert trying to flush the alien out of the air lock. as they are about to succeed, an alarm is triggered and the alien rushes out of the airlock (getting its tail caught in the closing door, and spilling acid that causes a hull breach). parker falls unconciously to the floor, ripley does the same and lambert and ash come to their rescue. ripley vocalizes her suspicions about ash by accusing him of setting the alarm off. after dallas's disappearance, ripley (being suspicious of ash) asks lambert if she's ever slept with him. the build-up to lambert's death is much longer. (watch the alien's shadow on the wall, it walks in, crouches down, then immediately gets up) a scene where we see the alien enter, crouch down and wait until lambert notices its presence was cut. when lambert sees the alien, it uncoils its tail and walks (like a crab) over to lambert. after ripley discovers the remains of parker and lambert, she makes another discovery. ripley enters the landing gear area of the nostromo (where brett got killed) and discovers a cocooned dallas and brett mutating into an egg. dallas pleads, "kill me". ripley flames dallas and the brett-egg and then runs to set the ship on self-destruct. connections edited into bride of monster mania (2000) soundtracks incidental music from 'symphony no. 2 ('romantic')' by howard hanson [played over end credits] user reviews1.6k review top review 10/10 holds up as a classic. alien remains one of the most original, terrifying movies of all time. compare this with the lame sci fi horrors we get nowadays, 1979, and it still packs a huge punch. fantastically atmospheric, chilling and terrifying even now, the story holds up incredibly well. the special effects were incredible for the time, no wonder the franchise is still in demand, though sadly nowhere near the quality of this one or its amazing successor. the music is fantastic, the direction is incredible, and as for the alien itself, way ahead of its time. weaver is phenomenal, but arguably she's upstaged by the creature. you can't help but remember scenes days after watching it, it definitely has the chill factor. a cinematic masterpiece. 10/10 helpful?50 6 sleepin_dragon jan 16, 2020 faq29 where is the planetoid the nostromo visits, and does it have a name? how does the spaceship create gravity? the spaceship does not seem to be rotating, although rotation is necessary to create gravity in the space. why can the alien be alive in the atmosphere in the spaceship, which contains much more oxygen, which should be toxic to the alien, than in the planet the alien resides? details edit release date june 22, 1979 (united states) countries of origin united kingdom united states official sites official disney+ hotstar (id) official facebook language english also known as alien: le huiti?me passager filming locations shepperton studios, shepperton, surrey, england, uk production company brandywine productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $11,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $81,900,459 opening weekend us & canada $3,527,881 may 28, 1979 gross worldwide $106,285,522 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 57 minutes color color sound mix dolby stereo aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news cancelled or renewed? status of cable & streaming tv shows (a-d) mar 30tvseriesfinale.com apa signs showrunner jose molina mar 29deadline film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of alien (1979) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
