https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120586/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_38::american history x (1998) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) american history x 19981998 14a14a 1h 59m imdb rating 8.5/10 1.1m your rating rate popularity 612 10 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:25 2 videos 99+ photos drama a former neo-nazi skinhead tries to prevent his younger brother from going down the same wrong path that he did.a former neo-nazi skinhead tries to prevent his younger brother from going down the same wrong path that he did.a former neo-nazi skinhead tries to prevent his younger brother from going down the same wrong path that he did. imdb rating 8.5/10 1.1m your rating rate popularity 612 10 director tony kaye writer david mckenna stars edward norton edward furlong beverly d'angelo top credits director tony kaye writer david mckenna stars edward norton edward furlong beverly d'angelo see production, box office & company info 1.6kuser reviews 123critic reviews 62metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #38 nominated for 1 oscar 4 wins & 15 nominations total videos2 trailer 2:25 american history x trailer 2:26 american history x photos452 top cast edit edward norton derekas derek edward furlong dannyas danny beverly d'angelo dorisas doris jennifer lien davinaas davina ethan suplee sethas seth fairuza balk staceyas stacey avery brooks sweeneyas sweeney elliott gould murrayas murray stacy keach cameronas cameron william russ dennisas dennis guy torry lamontas lamont joe cortese rasmussenas rasmussen jason bose smith little henryas little henry (as jason bose-smith) antonio david lyons lawrenceas lawrence alex sol mitch mccormickas mitch mccormick keram malicki-s?nchez chrisas chris (as keram malicki-sanchez) giuseppe andrews jasonas jason michelle christine white lizzyas lizzy director tony kaye writer david mckenna all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 the usual suspects watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.4 american beauty watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options storyline edit derek vineyard is paroled after serving 3 years in prison for brutally killing two black men who tried to break into/steal his truck. through his brother's, danny vineyard, narration, we learn that before going to prison, derek was a skinhead and the leader of a violent white supremacist gang that committed acts of racial crime throughout l.a. and his actions greatly influenced danny. reformed and fresh out of prison, derek severs contact with the gang and becomes determined to keep danny from going down the same violent path as he did. ?nitesh d.(nmxpa7@msn.com) neo naziprisonhatredracismmurder377 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines his father taught him to hate. his friends taught him rage. his enemies gave him hope. genre drama certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia edward norton turned down saving private ryan (1998) to do this film. goofs in the opening scene, derek fires 24 shots without reloading from a ruger p94, which could hold no more than 10 rounds in the magazine and one in the chamber. quotes bob sweeney: there was a moment, when i used to blame everything and everyone for all the pain and suffering and vile things that happened to me, that i saw happen to my people. used to blame everybody. blamed white people, blamed society, blamed god. i didn't get no answers 'cause i was asking the wrong questions. you have to ask the right questions. derek vinyard: like what? bob sweeney: has anything you've done made your life better? alternate versions the new line cinema dvd features 3 deleted scenes: a scene in which an elderly black woman is harassed and made to cry on the boardwalk by a bunch of teenage skinheads. a scene after the "party", in which cameron and seth go to a caf? and discuss derek's change. they then harass a black guy/white girl couple, and then leave. a car is waiting outside, in which several black men watch them leave, before going after them. one black man inside the car remarks "somebody's gonna get their ass whipped." the aftermath is not shown, but we later learn that cameron and seth were attacked. a brief scene in the caf? near the end in which derek winks at a little black girl and asks her if he looks okay. connections edited into american history x: deleted scenes (1998) soundtracks battle hymn of the republic (circa 1856) (uncredited) music by william steffe lyrics by julia ward howe (1862) sung a cappella by ethan suplee with modified lyrics user reviews1.6k review top review 10/10 all time favorite i have loved this movie since the day i saw it! i own it & will never sell or give it away! it's topic will always be relevant & controversial. i can watch it every few years or so & still love it as much as the first time! helpful?28 3 lisa-13121 aug 28, 2019 faq12 what events cause derek to renounce his neo-nazi views? what happened to seth and cameron? is "american history x" based on a book? details edit release date july 1, 1998 (canada) country of origin united states official sites official facebook warner bros. (united states) language english also known as generation x-tr?me filming locations venice high school - 13000 venice boulevard, venice, los angeles, california, usa production companies new line cinema savoy pictures the turman-morrissey company see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $20,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $6,719,864 opening weekend us & canada $156,076 nov 1, 1998 gross worldwide $23,875,127 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 59 minutes color color black and white sound mix dolby digital aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news zola star taylour paige has joined the cast of tony kaye's the trainer mar 30slash film taylour paige boards dark comedy ?the trainer? from ?american history x? director tony kaye mar 29deadline film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of american history x (1998) in japan? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
