https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0034583/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_42::casablanca (1942) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) casablanca 19421942 gg 1h 42m imdb rating 8.5/10 557k your rating rate popularity 813 536 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:11 6 videos 99+ photos dramaromancewar a cynical expatriate american cafe owner struggles to decide whether or not to help his former lover and her fugitive husband escape the nazis in french morocco.a cynical expatriate american cafe owner struggles to decide whether or not to help his former lover and her fugitive husband escape the nazis in french morocco.a cynical expatriate american cafe owner struggles to decide whether or not to help his former lover and her fugitive husband escape the nazis in french morocco. imdb rating 8.5/10 557k your rating rate popularity 813 536 director michael curtiz writers julius j. epstein(screenplay) philip g. epstein(screenplay) howard koch(screenplay) stars humphrey bogart ingrid bergman paul henreid top credits director michael curtiz writers julius j. epstein(screenplay) philip g. epstein(screenplay) howard koch(screenplay) stars humphrey bogart ingrid bergman paul henreid see production, box office & company info 1.4kuser reviews 211critic reviews 100metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #42 won 3 oscars 10 wins & 9 nominations total videos6 trailer 2:11 casablanca trailer 2:52 casablanca clip 1:35 which iconic movie characters should meet at the 'el royale'? full episode 3:46 "riverdale" star madelaine petsch can't get enough 'harry potter' video 1:36 shakespeare "goes hollywood" with finn wittrock video 2:10 dates in movie & tv history: dec. 2, 1941 - ilsa lund walks in photos279 top cast edit humphrey bogart rick blaineas rick blaine ingrid bergman ilsa lundas ilsa lund paul henreid victor laszloas victor laszlo claude rains captain louis renaultas captain louis renault conrad veidt major heinrich strasseras major heinrich strasser sydney greenstreet signor ferrarias signor ferrari peter lorre ugarteas ugarte s.z. sakall carlas carl (as s.k. sakall) madeleine lebeau yvonneas yvonne (as madeleine lebeau) dooley wilson samas sam joy page annina brandelas annina brandel john qualen bergeras berger leonid kinskey saschaas sascha curt bois pickpocketas pickpocket abdullah abbas arabas arab (uncredited) enrique acosta guest at rick'sas guest at rick's (uncredited) ed agresti bar patronas bar patron (uncredited) arnet amos french soldieras french soldier (uncredited) ? director michael curtiz writers julius j. epstein(screenplay) philip g. epstein(screenplay) howard koch(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 rear window watch options 8.3 citizen kane watch options 8.5 psycho watch options 8.2 gone with the wind watch options 8.3 vertigo watch options 8.5 modern times watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 5.7 casablanca 8.5 once upon a time in the west watch options 8.4 sunset boulevard watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options storyline edit the story of rick blaine, a cynical world-weary ex-patriate who runs a nightclub in casablanca, morocco during the early stages of wwii. despite the pressure he constantly receives from the local authorities, rick's cafe has become a kind of haven for refugees seeking to obtain illicit letters that will help them escape to america. but when ilsa, a former lover of rick's, and her husband, show up to his cafe one day, rick faces a tough challenge which will bring up unforeseen complications, heartbreak and ultimately an excruciating decision to make. ?kyle perez nazilove trianglecasablanca morocconightclubanti nazi182 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines where love cuts as deep as a dagger! genres drama romance war certificate g parents guide did you know edit trivia many of the actors who played the nazis were in fact german jews who had escaped from nazi germany. goofs when rick and sam get on the train after standing in the rain, their coats are completely dry. quotes rick: of all the gin joints, in all the towns, in all the world, she walks into mine. alternate versions as late as 1974, the references to an extra-marital affair were banned in ireland. the irish cut got rid of two important sequences. first, after ilsa tells rick that she had left him after finding out that viktor was still alive, the embraces and dialogue that followed were cut. second, the emotional dialogue at the end of the film from ilsa's line "you're saying that only to make me go" to rick's line "what i've got to do, you haven't any part of". this led to irish audiences' being bemused by the relationship between rick and ilsa, and often interpreting rick's final speech beginning "i'm no good at being noble" as a reflection on the debilitating effects of war. connections edited into 77 sunset strip: the secret of adam cain (1959) soundtracks la marseillaise (1792) (uncredited) written by claude joseph rouget de lisle arranged by max steiner played during the opening credits sung by madeleine lebeau and others at rick's variations played often in the score user reviews1.4k review top review 10/10 a masterwork for all time... there is a scene about halfway through the movie casablanca that has become commonly known as 'the battle of the anthems' throughout the film's long history. a group of german soldiers has come into rick's caf? american and are drunkenly singing the german national anthem at the top of their voice. victor lazlo, the leader of the french resistance, cannot stand this act and while the rest of the club stares appalled at the germans, lazlo orders the band to play 'le marseilles (sic?)' the french national anthem. with a nod from rick, the band begins playing, with victor singing at the top of his voice. this in turn, inspires the whole club to begin singing and the germans are forced to surrender and sit down at their table, humbled by the crowd's dedication. this scene is a turning point in the movie, for reasons that i leave to you to discover. as i watched this movie again tonight for what must be the 100th time, i noticed there was a much smaller scene wrapped inside the bigger scene that, unless you look for it, you may never notice. yvonne, a minor character who is hurt by rick emotionally, falls into the company of a german soldier. in a land occupied by the germans, but populated by the french, this is an unforgivable sin. she comes into the bar desperately seeking happiness in the club's wine, song, and gambling. later, as the germans begin singing we catch a glimpse of yvonne sitting dejectedly at a table alone and in this brief glimpse, it is conveyed that she has discovered that this is not her path to fulfillment and she has no idea where to go from there. as the singing progresses, we see yvonne slowly become inspired by lazlo's act of defiance and by the end of the song, tears streaming down her face, she is singing at the top of her voice too. she has found her redemption. she has found something that will make her life never the same again from that point on. basically, this is casablanca in a nutshell. on the surface, you may see it as a romance, or as a story of intrigue, but that is only partially correct. the thing that makes casablanca great is that it speaks to that place in each of us that seeks some kind of inspiration or redemption. on some level, every character in the story receives the same kind of catharsis and their lives are irrevocably changed. rick's is the most obvious in that he learns to live again, instead of hiding from a lost love. he is reminded that there are things in the world more noble and important than he is and he wants to be a part of them. louis, the scoundrel, gets his redemption by seeing the sacrifice rick makes and is inspired to choose a side, where he had maintained careful neutrality. the stoic lazlo gets his redemption by being shown that while thousands may need him to be a hero, there is someone he can rely upon when he needs inspiration in the form of his wife, who was ready to sacrifice her happiness for the chance that he would go on living. even ferrai, the local organized crime leader gets a measure of redemption by pointing ilsa and lazlo to rick as a source of escape even though there is nothing in it for him. this is the beauty of this movie. every time i see it (and i have seen it a lot) it never fails that i see some subtle nuance that i have never seen before. considering that the director would put that much meaning into what is basically a throw away moment (not the entire scene, but yvonne's portion) speaks bundles about the quality of the film. my wife and i watched this movie on our first date, and since that first time over 12 years ago, it has grown to be, in my mind, the greatest movie ever made. helpful?580 79 kdryan nov 10, 2004 faq4 was ronald reagan originally cast as rick? what exactly are "letters of transit"? is the character victor laszlo's name mispronounced? details edit release date january 23, 1943 (united states) country of origin united states official site facebook languages english french german italian also known as everybody comes to rick's filming locations hotel monte vista, flagstaff, arizona, usa production company warner bros. see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $950,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $4,219,709 opening weekend us & canada $181,494 apr 12, 1992 gross worldwide $4,497,613 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 42 minutes color black and white aspect ratio 1.37 : 1 related news oscar nominee profile: third time could be the charm for director paul thomas anderson (?licorice pizza?) mar 26gold derby academy museum announces upcoming season, exhibits on hollywood founders, ?the godfather,? ?boyz n the hood? mar 21variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of casablanca (1942) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
