https://www.imdb.com/news/celebrity/?ref_=nv_cel_nw::celebrity news - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) celebrity news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 by ethan shanfeld variety - film news sharon stone has been tapped to play villain victoria kord in dc?s upcoming ?blue beetle,? its first superhero movie starring a latino character, variety confirms. victoria kord is a new character created for the film, which will premiere in theaters on aug. 18, 2023. raoul max trujillo (?mayans m.c.?) also joins ?blue beetle? as carapax the indestructible man. stone and trujillo star alongside xolo maridue? (?cobra kai?) as the lead role of jamie reyes, the alter ego of the blue beetle, a vigilante who has a scarab grafted onto his spine that gives him tremendous powers and the ability to emit blue energy. bruna marquezine will play penny, the female lead and love interest, while belissa escobedo and harvey guill?n will also appear in the film. escobedo will play jamie?s younger sister, milagros, while details about guillen?s role are still under wraps. angel manuel soto (?charm city kings see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 by jennifer maas variety - tv news elliot page?s ?the umbrella academy? character will come out as transgender in season 3 of the netflix series, the actor said tuesday. previously the cisgender woman vanya hargreeves in seasons 1 and 2, page?s character ? whose superpower involves unleashing force through the use of sound ? will transition in the upcoming third season, which debuts on june 22. page?s character will now be known as viktor hargreeves and use he/him/his pronouns. page announced the news himself, tweeting a first-look photo of viktor along with the caption: ?meet viktor hargreeves.? netflix shared the tweet, adding: ?welcome to the family, viktor ? we see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 by jennifer maas variety - tv news viewership for sunday?s oscars on abc grew by 511,000 viewers during the 15-minute time span that featured will smith slapping chris rock, according to live + same day nielsen data. while the oscars? audience dipped from there, it spiked again during smith?s best actor win and acceptance speech shortly after 11 p.m. et, this time by 614,000 viewers. the most-watched portion of the entire show was the 15 minutes between 9:15 p.m. and 9:29 p.m., which saw ?coda? star troy kotsur win best supporting actor. at approximately 10:27 p.m. et during the 94th academy awards telecast, smith went on see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 by ethan shanfeld variety - film news after her notable absence from the recent ?harry potter? reunion special, j.k. rowling attended the premiere of ?fantastic beasts: the secrets of dumbledore? on tuesday at the royal festival hall in london. when ?harry potter? stars daniel radcliffe, emma watson and rupert grint reunited earlier this year for the hbo max special ?return to hogwarts,? which celebrated the 20th anniversary of ?harry potter and the sorcerer?s stone,? rowling decided to sit out. while the author and franchise creator was invited to participate in the reunion, she declined, causing hbo max to use archival footage of rowling from 2019 instead. rowling is a co-screenwriter and producer of ?fantastic beasts: the secrets of dumbledore,? which is the third installment of the ?harry potter? spinoff franchise. the film premieres on april 15 in the united states. a polarizing figure, rowling has been outspoken on social media about her views on transgender people and opposition to see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this jada pinkett smith calls for ?healing? after will smith slaps chris rock at the oscars 29 march 2022 by zack sharf variety - film news jada pinkett smith responded somewhat cryptically to her husband will smith slapping chris rock at the oscars. pinkett smith posted a message to her instagram page that reads: ?this is the season for healing. and i?m here for it.? the actor was the subject of the joke that led will smith to take the oscar stage and slap rock. the comedian joked about jada pinkett smith starring in ?g.i. jane 2? because of her shaved bald head. rock was referencing the 1997 movie ?g.i. jane,? in which demi moore appears with a shaved head. several days before the oscars, pinkett smith posted a message on tiktok in which she embraced her bald head. the actor has alopecia, which causes hair loss, and shaved her head last year. in the tiktok message, which is set to india arie?s song ?i am not my hair,? pinkett smith discussed the pressure she see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this ?flash? star ezra miller arrested for disorderly conduct and harassment in hawaii 29 march 2022 by j. kim murphy variety - film news ezra miller, who stars in the upcoming dc film ?the flash? and april?s ?fantastic beasts: the secrets of dumbledore,? was arrested by law enforcement in hilo, hawaii on monday morning. miller was charged for disorderly conduct and harassment after an incident at a bar. according to a post by the hawai?i county police department, south hilo officers responded to a report of a disorderly bar patron on sunday evening at 11:30 p.m. police determined that the agitator had become unruly while other patrons sang karaoke and had begun ?yelling obscenities.? miller then ?grabbed the microphone from a 23-year-old woman singing karaoke and later lunged at a 32-year-old man playing darts.? 3-28-22 vermont visitor arrested for disorderly conduct and harassment in hilo https://t.co/12rmq3eckh ? hawaii police department (official site) (@hawaii_police) march 29, 2022 miller was arrested and charged on offenses of disorderly conduct and harassment. see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this will smith apologizes to chris rock: ?i was out of line and i was wrong? 28 march 2022 by brian welk the wrap will smith has formally apologized to chris rock in a statement posted to his instagram, saying that he was ?out of line and i was wrong? for slapping him at the oscars sunday night. the ?king richard? star also called his behavior ?unacceptable and inexcusable? and again apologized to the academy and producers of the show. ?violence in all of its forms is poisonous and destructive. my behavior at last night?s academy awards was unacceptable and inexcusable. jokes at my expense are a part of the job, but a joke about jada?s medical condition was too much for me to bear and i reacted emotionally. i would like to publicly apologize to you, chris. i was out of line and i was wrong. i am embarrassed and my actions were not indicative of the man i want to be. there is no place for violence in a world of love and kindness. see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this harry styles dropped out of robert eggers? ?nosferatu? remake with anya taylor-joy 28 march 2022 by zack sharf variety - film news harry styles was briefly attached to robert eggers? ?nosferatu? remake before he dropped out of the project due to scheduling conflicts. the new yorker first reported the casting exit. contacted by variety, a representative for styles confirmed the news. had styles not pulled out of the movie, then ?nosferatu? would have paired the grammy winner and ?dunkirk? actor with anya taylor-joy. variety first reported in 2017 that ?the witch? and ?the lighthouse? director robert eggers was planning his own ?nosferatu? movie with taylor-joy, who collaborated with eggers on their breakthrough indie ?the witch.? taylor-joy stars in eggers? upcoming viking epic ?the northman,? in theaters april 22 from focus features. production on ?the northman? got delayed by covid in 2020, which is part of the reason the director?s ?nosferatu? plans have remained open-ended. eggers confirmed earlier this year that he?s still in discussions with taylor-joy to do the movie, which will reimagine f. see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this cheetah girls' kiely williams welcomes baby no. 2 30 march 2022 e! online show some cheetah love to kiely williams! the cheetah girls star announced the birth of her second child on instagram on march 29. in addition to posting the first photo of her little one, the actress and singer shared the newborn's name: archer. williams also received a congratulatory message from her fellow cheetah girl sabrina bryan, who wrote, "there she is!! gorgeous little archer!!! love you so much baby girl!" williams never announced her pregnancy and had been absent on instagram since august. when she was pregnant with her first child?now 4-year-old daughter rowan?the 3lw alum informed her followers that a baby was on the way by posting a photo of her and her... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this stars send support to bruce willis after aphasia diagnosis 30 march 2022 e! online hollywood stars are sending their love to bruce willis after his family announced that he would be taking a step back from his career following his aphasia diagnosis. on march 30, the die hard actor's family?including wife emma heming willis, ex demi moore, and kids rumer willis, 33, scout willis, 30, tallulah willis, 28?released a statement on their respective instagram accounts about bruce's health. the statement was also signed by bruce and emma's young daughters, mabel willis, 9, and evelyn willis, 7. "this is a really challenging time for our family and we are so appreciative of your continued love, compassion and support," the message said in part. "we... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this wanda sykes shares the apology she received from chris rock after will smith oscars 2022 drama 30 march 2022 e! online wanda sykes has received an apology?but not from will smith. just days after co-hosting the 2022 oscars with amy schumer and regina hall, the comedian appeared on the ellen degeneres show where she revealed what an emotional chris rock said to her after the king richard star slapped him. following the incident, chris and wanda both attended gucci's 14th annual "the party" at the home of guy oseary. "as soon as i walked up, the first thing he said to me was, 'i am so sorry. it was supposed to be your night. you and amy and regina were doing such a good job. i'm so sorry this is going to be about this,'" wanda told host ellen... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this the wanted and more honor tom parker after singer's death 30 march 2022 e! online members of the wanted, lawson, union j and more are remembering the "positive, inspiring energy" of tom parker after his passing. the singer, who was diagnosed with stage four glioblastoma in october 2020, died on march 30 surrounded by family and bandmates just weeks after completing the group's reunion tour. the 33-year-old is survived by his wife, kelsey, and their two children aurelia and bodhi. his bandmates?siva kaneswaran, jay mcguiness, nathan sykes and max george?confirmed the news in a poignant statement on the wanted's instagram account. "max, jay, siva, nathan and the whole... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this love is blind's shayne jansen addresses drug use allegations and more in bombshell interview 30 march 2022 e! online shayne jansen is ready to share his side of the story. the love is blind star joined nick viall on the viall files' march 30 episode to address the rumors that have emerged about him since season two's shocking reunion. the real estate agent has been accused of using drugs during filming and of hooking up with co-star shaina hurley after the show wrapped. in addition to addressing the allegations (below), he said he wants to speak his piece because ex natalie lee has spoken hers but he insisted that this wasn't his attempt to smear her: "i want it to not go unnoticed that natalie is a good person and what we went through was very dramatic for both... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this sarah jessica parker reveals what it's like to work with her husband matthew broderick 30 march 2022 e! online and just like that...sarah jessica parker and matthew broderick are back on broadway. the longtime couple first took the stage together in how to succeed in business without really trying back in 1996, just four years into their relationship. now, they're starring in the broadway revival of neil simon's plaza suite, which had its opening night on march 28. so, what it's really like to work together after being married for more than two decades? in an exclusive interview with e! news' daily pop, the sex and the city alum described being onstage with her husband as "extraordinary." "i mean, the best part is the experience in its totality," sarah... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this tom parker's journey with the wanted: hits, brotherhood, heartache and a "beautifully special" reunion 30 march 2022 e! online the wanted had high hopes for "all time low." but what were the odds that their first-ever single would make a big splash? "you wouldn't believe how much we adore you all the lot, you've got us to #1 and we owe it all to you :)," tom parker, the oldest member of the group at 21, wrote to their fans on social media before they all headed out for a celebratory drink when their july 25, 2010, debut release did turn out to be a hit.. and yet the wanted made it look easy right out of the gate, the five lads?four... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this game of thrones prequel series house of the dragon finally has a premiere date 30 march 2022 e! online good news, game of thrones fans: house of the dragon has finally gotten a premiere date. just when you thought the wait would drag-on forever, hbo announced that the got prequel series will premiere on august 21. as if we needed another reason to look forward to summer! the series?which stars emma d'arcy and matt smith as princess rhaenyra targaryen and prince daemon targaryen, respectively?is based on george r.r. martin's book fire & blood and is set 200 years before the events of game of thrones, providing a history on house targaryen. first confirmed in 2019, the prequel will be well worth the wait, according to martin. he previously... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this the voice winner jordan smith on how american song contest competition is different 30 march 2022 e! online jordan smith is ready to claim another singing competition title. the season nine winner of the voice has advanced to the semi-finals of nbc's american song contest with his original song "sparrow." the kentucky native chatted with e! news in an exclusive backstage interview after his march 28 performance, dishing about what makes the new series different from others like it. no longer having to "sing for his life" every week like he did on the voice, he's enjoying getting to represent his home state and the people who supported him over the years. "i get to use this as an opportunity to share that spotlight... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this here's your first look at the real housewives of atlanta's explosive season 14 trailer 30 march 2022 e! online looks like the georgia peaches are feeling the squeeze of fresh drama. our favorite atlanta ladies are back in the explosive first trailer for the real housewives of atlanta season 14, which premieres on bravo may 1. original rhoa housewife shere? whitfield returns this season, while former sidekick marlo hampton is finally getting the upgrade she deserves, officially joining the housewife ranks of returning cast members kandi burruss, kenya moore and drew sidora. rounding out the season 14 cast is new housewife and olympic track-and-field star sanya richards-ross, who already has a warning for her castmates. "i'm a... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this beyonc? shares extremely revealing oscars after-party look in sexy shots 30 march 2022 by anita tai et canada beyonc? blessed the world with some post-oscars glam! on wednesday morning, queen bey took to her instagram and shared a series of sexy photos of her look from her and jay-z?s annual gold party. in true beyonc? fashion, the songstress didn?t add a caption, just photos. the carousel began with the ?be alive? singer holding up a diamond-studded sheer see full article at et canada ? permalink report this bruce willis stepping away from acting following aphasia diagnosis 30 march 2022 e! online bruce willis is taking a step back from his career to focus on his health. the 67-year-old actor's family?including wife emma heming willis, ex demi moore, as well as kids rumer willis, 33, scout willis, 30, tallulah willis, 28, mabel willis, 9, and evelyn willis, 7?announced that bruce has been diagnosed with aphasia, a condition that can impact a person's ability to communicate. "to bruce's amazing supporters, as a family we wanted to share that our beloved bruce has been experiencing some health issues and has recently been diagnosed with aphasia, which is impacting his cognitive abilities," his family's statement, posted to instagram via... see full article at e! online ? permalink report this an error has occured. please try again. load more imdb.com, inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, tweets, or blog posts. this content is published for the entertainment of our users only. the news articles, tweets, and blog posts do not represent imdb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy. top news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 variety - film news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news see all top news ? movie news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 variety - film news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 variety - film news see all movie news ? tv news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news ?it? prequel series in the works at hbo max 29 march 2022 variety - tv news will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 variety - tv news see all tv news ? indie news ?donbass? review: sergei loznitsa?s bleak and brutal ukraine-set war comedy is eerily timed 30 march 2022 the playlist oscar co-hosts wanda sykes & amy schumer denounce the will smith slap: ?it was sickening? 30 march 2022 the playlist ?nitram? review: justin kurzel?s sober and sickening portrait of australia?s deadliest mass shooter 30 march 2022 indiewire what to expect from ?bridgerton? season 3 after that bombshell finale 30 march 2022 indiewire netflix reboots ?spy kids? with robert rodriguez returning to helm the franchise 30 march 2022 indiewire see all indie news ? clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
