https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0317248/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_24::city of god (2002) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) city of god original title: cidade de deus 20022002 18a18a 2h 10m imdb rating 8.6/10 738k your rating rate popularity 501 87 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer0:59 2 videos 99+ photos crimedrama in the slums of rio, two kids' paths diverge as one struggles to become a photographer and the other a kingpin.in the slums of rio, two kids' paths diverge as one struggles to become a photographer and the other a kingpin.in the slums of rio, two kids' paths diverge as one struggles to become a photographer and the other a kingpin. imdb rating 8.6/10 738k your rating rate popularity 501 87 directors fernando meirelles k?tia lund writers paulo lins(novel) br?ulio mantovani(screenplay) stars alexandre rodrigues leandro firmino matheus nachtergaele top credits directors fernando meirelles k?tia lund writers paulo lins(novel) br?ulio mantovani(screenplay) stars alexandre rodrigues leandro firmino matheus nachtergaele see production, box office & company info 1.1kuser reviews 213critic reviews 79metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #24 nominated for 4 oscars 74 wins & 50 nominations total videos2 trailer 0:59 city of god: blu-ray trailer 0:55 city of god photos118 top cast edit alexandre rodrigues buscap? - rocketas buscap? - rocket leandro firmino z? pequeno - li'l z?as z? pequeno - li'l z? matheus nachtergaele sandro cenoura - carrotas sandro cenoura - carrot phellipe haagensen ben? - bennyas ben? - benny douglas silva dadinho - li'l diceas dadinho - li'l dice jonathan haagensen cabeleira - shaggyas cabeleira - shaggy seu jorge man? galinha - knockout nedas man? galinha - knockout ned jefechander suplino alicate - clipperas alicate - clipper alice braga ang?licaas ang?lica emerson gomes barbantinho - stringyas barbantinho - stringy edson oliveira barbantinho adulto - older stringyas barbantinho adulto - older stringy michel gomes ben? crian?a - young bennyas ben? crian?a - young benny (as michel de souza gomes) roberta rodrigues berenice - berniceas berenice - bernice luis ot?vio buscap? crian?a - young rocketas buscap? crian?a - young rocket kiko marques cabe??o - melonheadas cabe??o - melonhead (as maur?cio marques) gustavo engr?cia editor do jornal - rogerio reisas editor do jornal - rogerio reis darlan cunha fil?-com-fritas - steak and friesas fil?-com-fritas - steak and fries robson rocha gelson - gersonas gelson - gerson directors fernando meirelles k?tia lund writers paulo lins(novel) br?ulio mantovani(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.5 american history x watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.5 the usual suspects watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.7 seven samurai watch options storyline edit brazil, 1960s, city of god. the tender trio robs motels and gas trucks. younger kids watch and learn well...too well. 1970s: li'l z? has prospered very well and owns the city. he causes violence and fear as he wipes out rival gangs without mercy. his best friend ben? is the only one to keep him on the good side of sanity. rocket has watched these two gain power for years, and he wants no part of it. he keeps getting swept up in the madness. all he wants to do is take pictures. 1980s: things are out of control between the last two remaining gangs...will it ever end? welcome to the city of god. ?jeff mellinger <jeffmellinger@astound.net> photographerslumgangbrazilfavela306 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines if you run, the beast will get you. if you stay, the beast will eat you genres crime drama certificate 18a parents guide did you know edit trivia when we hear buscap? (alexandre rodrigues) talking to marina (graziella moretto) about how "he never took a hot bath", that was not scripted. actually, that was rodrigues and moretto talking off camera, during a pause in the shooting, when the boy (who lived on the slums) was telling her about his life. goofs lil' ze is taken into custody by the police, rocket runs after the police truck. the police truck passes by a late - model chevrolet s10, black, circa 2001. the movie is set in the seventies. quotes buscap?: it was like a message from god: "honesty doesn't pay, sucker." crazy credits during the end credits there is shown actual real-life footage of the real man? galinha, or knockout-ned as he is translated into in the american version of the film. this is in fact the same tv interview we see constructed in the film, and we can see that the filmmakers have copied this tv interview down to the smallest detail. alternate versions the indian censor board deleted the visuals of frontal nudity in the motel and the dialogue of two ladies about sexual experiences. it was given an 'a' (restricted to adults) certificate. connections featured in siskel & ebert & the movies: the best films of 2002 (2003) soundtracks alvorada written by cartola / carlos cacha?a / herm?nio bello de carvalho (as herm?nio b. carvalho) performed by cartola peer music do brasil edi??es musicais ltda licensed by emi music ltda user reviews1.1k review top review 10/10 stunning - in every sense of the word cidade de deus seems to have a lot of praise on the imdb boards, and with good reason too. it simply is, in my opinion, one of the best contemporary films ever made. based on true events and characters who live in the overlooked and poverty stricken slums in the shadows of rio de janiero, where life expectancy doesn't reach the 30's and drug dealers are kings. the tale of the city of god, and its myriad of characters is told by rocket, a young man who struggles to make something of his life, other than to wind up another victim of drugs or gang wars. not only are the characters in city of god absolutely fascinating, and also very endearing, but also convincingly acted by groups of young and unknown actors. the stoies are well-told, and at times, funny, and at others, brutally shocking. the cinematic style of the film gives a nod to tarantino, with some clever time-jumping, freeze-framing, and texts indicating another chapter of the film. in every sense, a bit of a brazillian "pulp fiction" or "goodfellas", but with its own unique flavour to it. the city of god is a marvel, and a highly recommended film to watch, but not recommended for the over-sensitive or easily distressed. helpful?825 84 trelloskilos-1 dec 18, 2004 faq3 is 'city of god' based on a novel? why is the favela called "city of god"? it seems like just the opposite. the "runts" frequently mention the formation of a "red" gang. is there any significance to this? details edit release date august 30, 2002 (brazil) countries of origin brazil france germany official sites official facebook official facebook language portuguese also known as cit? de dieu filming locations rio de janeiro, rio de janeiro, brazil production companies o2 filmes videofilmes globo filmes see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget r$3,300,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $7,564,459 opening weekend us & canada $88,292 jan 19, 2003 gross worldwide $30,680,793 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 10 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital sdds aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news the brazilian filmmakers collective launching at efm feb 9deadline film + tv uruguay?s coral cine ramps up 2022 slate with oscar-nominated ?city of god? dp cesar charlone (exclusive) jan 13variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of cidade de deus (2002) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
