https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0137523/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_12::fight club (1999) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) fight club 19991999 rr 2h 19m imdb rating 8.8/10 2m your rating rate popularity 135 20 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:00 8 videos 99+ photos drama an insomniac office worker and a devil-may-care soap maker form an underground fight club that evolves into much more.an insomniac office worker and a devil-may-care soap maker form an underground fight club that evolves into much more.an insomniac office worker and a devil-may-care soap maker form an underground fight club that evolves into much more. imdb rating 8.8/10 2m your rating rate popularity 135 20 director david fincher writers chuck palahniuk(based on the novel by) jim uhls(screenplay by) stars brad pitt edward norton meat loaf top credits director david fincher writers chuck palahniuk(based on the novel by) jim uhls(screenplay by) stars brad pitt edward norton meat loaf see production, box office & company info 4.2kuser reviews 368critic reviews 66metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #12 nominated for 1 oscar 11 wins & 38 nominations total videos8 trailer 2:00 fight club clip 1:59 a guide to the films of david fincher clip 1:33 alphabet of movies | a to z clip 1:01 'the shawshank redemption' | anniversary mashup clip 1:01 'fight club' | anniversary mashup full episode 3:46 "riverdale" star madelaine petsch can't get enough 'harry potter' full episode 3:30 "the ranch" star elisha cuthbert can't get enough of brad pitt video 3:40 what roles did brad pitt miss out on? photos420 top cast edit brad pitt tyler durdenas tyler durden edward norton narratoras narrator meat loaf robert paulsenas robert paulsen zach grenier richard chesler (regional manager)as richard chesler (regional manager) richmond arquette intern at hospitalas intern at hospital david andrews thomas at remaining men togetheras thomas at remaining men together george maguire group leader - remaining men togetheras group leader - remaining men together eugenie bondurant weeping woman - onward and upwardas weeping woman - onward and upward christina cabot leader - partners in positivityas leader - partners in positivity helena bonham carter marla singeras marla singer sydney 'big dawg' colston speaker - free and clearas speaker - free and clear rachel singer chloeas chloe christie cronenweth airline check-in attendantas airline check-in attendant tim dezarn federated motor co. inspector birdas federated motor co. inspector bird (as tim dezarn) ezra buzzington federated motor co. inspector dentas federated motor co. inspector dent dierdre downing-jackson business woman on planeas business woman on plane bob stephenson airport security officeras airport security officer (as robert j. stephenson) charlie dell doorman at pearson towersas doorman at pearson towers director david fincher writers chuck palahniuk(based on the novel by) jim uhls(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.2 the wolf of wall street watch options 8.4 joker watch options 8.7 the matrix watch options 8.3 inglourious basterds watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options storyline edit a nameless first person narrator (edward norton) attends support groups in attempt to subdue his emotional state and relieve his insomniac state. when he meets marla (helena bonham carter), another fake attendee of support groups, his life seems to become a little more bearable. however when he associates himself with tyler (brad pitt) he is dragged into an underground fight club and soap making scheme. together the two men spiral out of control and engage in competitive rivalry for love and power. ?rhiannon surprise endinganti establishmentinsomniamultiple personality disorderbased on novel369 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines how much can you know about yourself if you've never been in a fight? genre drama certificate r parents guide did you know edit trivia author chuck palahniuk first came up with the idea for the novel after being beaten up on a camping trip when he complained to some nearby campers about the noise of their radio. when he returned to work, he was fascinated to find that nobody would mention or acknowledge his injuries, instead saying such commonplace things as "how was your weekend?" palahniuk concluded that the reason people reacted this way was because if they asked him what had happened, a degree of personal interaction would be necessary, and his workmates simply didn't care enough to connect with him on a personal level. it was his fascination with this societal 'blocking' which became the foundation for the novel. goofs (at around 1h 15 mins) when the mechanic (holt mccallany) sprays the seminary student (matt winston) with a hose, the camera briefly shakes because the cameraman was laughing uncontrollably. quotes tyler durden: [31:14] the things you own end up owning you. crazy credits the warning at the beginning of the dvd, after the copyright warnings reads: warning if you are reading this then this warning is for you. every word you read of this useless fine print is another second off your life. don't you have other things to do? is your life so empty that you honestly can't think of a better way to spend these moments? or are you so impressed with authority that you give respect and credence to all who claim it? do you read everything you're supposed to read? do you think everything you're supposed to think? buy what you're told you should want? get out of your apartment. meet a member of the opposite sex. stop the excessive shopping and masturbation. quit your job. start a fight. prove you're alive. if you don't claim your humanity you will become a statistic. you have been warned...... tyler alternate versions the version available for streaming in china has around a minute of footage of material from sex scenes were removed. also, for a period the closing scene of the buildings being destroyed was replaced with an english-language text card reading, "the police rapidly figured out the whole plan and arrested all criminals, successfully preventing the bomb from exploding. after the trial, tyler was sent to lunatic asylum [sic] receiving psychological treatment. he was discharged from the hospital in 2012." after this ending gained press notice, drawing attention to chinese censorship, the original ending was reinstated. connections edited into the arrivals (2008) soundtracks coffee shop zak composed by rolfe kent courtesy of twentieth century fox film corporation user reviews4.2k review top review 10/10 watch it atleast twice beleive me if you want to feel this movie to the core watch it twice . it took me twice to analyse that this movie was something much more than just awesome brilliant acting by brad pitt maybe his best one, direction above par . there is something much more in this movie than meets the eye .. watch it and find for yourself helpful?118 18 shuklaprakhar dec 18, 2018 faq24 if you're not allowed to tell anyone about fight club, how did they recruit new members? why was the little girl crying at the movie theater at 33:33? is 'fight club' based on a book? details edit release date october 15, 1999 (canada) countries of origin united states germany official sites official facebook official site language english also known as s?n ??u sinh t? filming locations 240 north neptune avenue, los angeles, california, usa production companies fox 2000 pictures new regency productions linson films see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $63,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $37,030,102 opening weekend us & canada $11,035,485 oct 17, 1999 gross worldwide $101,209,702 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 19 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital dts sdds aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news ralph fiennes paid a big price while preparing for his schindler's list role mar 30slash film david fincher's the killer has wrapped filming mar 29slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
