https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0109830/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_11::forrest gump (1994) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) forrest gump 19941994 pgpg 2h 22m imdb rating 8.8/10 2m your rating rate popularity 170 12 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer3:54 12 videos 99+ photos dramaromance the presidencies of kennedy and johnson, the vietnam war, the watergate scandal and other historical events unfold from the perspective of an alabama man with an iq of 75, whose only desire ... read allthe presidencies of kennedy and johnson, the vietnam war, the watergate scandal and other historical events unfold from the perspective of an alabama man with an iq of 75, whose only desire is to be reunited with his childhood sweetheart.the presidencies of kennedy and johnson, the vietnam war, the watergate scandal and other historical events unfold from the perspective of an alabama man with an iq of 75, whose only desire is to be reunited with his childhood sweetheart. imdb rating 8.8/10 2m your rating rate popularity 170 12 director robert zemeckis writers winston groom(novel) eric roth(screenplay) stars tom hanks robin wright gary sinise top credits director robert zemeckis writers winston groom(novel) eric roth(screenplay) stars tom hanks robin wright gary sinise see production, box office & company info 2.9kuser reviews 168critic reviews 82metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #11 won 6 oscars 50 wins & 75 nominations total videos12 trailer 3:54 forrest gump clip 7:01 essential guide to the work of robin wright clip 1:29 'forrest gump' | anniversary mashup clip 0:50 forrest gump clip 1:29 forrest gump clip 0:14 forrest gump video 3:22 what roles has tom hanks turned down? video 2:43 who almost starred in 'forrest gump'? video 3:11 haley joel osment's favorite memories of tom hanks and m. night shyamalan video 5:44 you just watched: 'forrest gump' video 2:42 "dates in movie & tv history": july 4 video 2:35 dates in movie & tv history: july 5, 1976 - forrest gump starts running photos246 top cast edit tom hanks forrest gumpas forrest gump robin wright jenny curranas jenny curran gary sinise lieutenant dan tayloras lieutenant dan taylor sally field mrs. gumpas mrs. gump rebecca williams nurse at park benchas nurse at park bench michael conner humphreys young forrestas young forrest harold g. herthum doctoras doctor (as harold herthum) george kelly barberas barber bob penny cronyas crony john randall cronyas crony sam anderson principalas principal margo moorer louiseas louise ione m. telech elderly womanas elderly woman christine seabrook elderly woman's daughteras elderly woman's daughter john worsham southern gentlemanas southern gentleman? peter dobson young elvis presleyas young elvis presley siobhan fallon hogan school bus driveras school bus driver (as siobhan j. fallon) alexander zemeckis school bus boyas school bus boy director robert zemeckis writers winston groom(novel) eric roth(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro can you imagine 'forrest gump' without tom hanks? can you imagine 'forrest gump' without tom hanks? tom hanks may have won an oscar for his role in forrest gump, but the part almost went to an "snl" star. which other a-listers were up for the legendary role? watch now 2:43 more like this 8.8 fight club watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.2 the wolf of wall street watch options storyline edit forrest gump is a simple man with a low i.q. but good intentions. he is running through childhood with his best and only friend jenny. his 'mama' teaches him the ways of life and leaves him to choose his destiny. forrest joins the army for service in vietnam, finding new friends called dan and bubba, he wins medals, creates a famous shrimp fishing fleet, inspires people to jog, starts a ping-pong craze, creates the smiley, writes bumper stickers and songs, donates to people and meets the president several times. however, this is all irrelevant to forrest who can only think of his childhood sweetheart jenny curran, who has messed up her life. although in the end all he wants to prove is that anyone can love anyone. ?aliw135 vietnam warbased on bookvietnammotheramputee269 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the story of a lifetime. genres drama romance certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia when forrest gets up to talk at the vietnam rally in washington, the microphone plug is pulled and you cannot hear him. according to tom hanks he said, "sometimes when people go to vietnam, they go home to their mommas without any legs. sometimes they don't go home at all. that's a bad thing. that's all i have to say about that." goofs when forrest is given his discharge papers, he sets down his ping-pong paddle and (computerized) ball to salute the officer. when he picks the paddle back up, he also pretends to pick up the ball, which didn't end up getting animated. quotes jenny curran: do you ever dream, forrest, about who you're gonna be? forrest gump: who i'm gonna be? jenny curran: yeah. forrest gump: aren't-aren't i going to be me? alternate versions in the tbs and the abc version, the line at the end of the dorm scene is cut, "i think i ruined your roommate's bath robe". connections edited from the birth of a nation (1915) soundtracks lovesick blues by cliff friend & irving mills performed by hank williams courtesy of polygram special markets user reviews2.9k review top review 10/10 the zen of forrest gump. this is a powerful yet charming movie; fun for its special effects and profound in how it keeps you thinking long after it's over. like others, i've seen this movie more than once. one comment i've never heard is that forrest's simplicity is almost zen-like. i should read the novel to get the author's intention (i remember some people preferring the book and complaining that no one at the academy awards gave him any credit.) but rather than an implication that you should do what you're supposed to do and believe in god and you'll win in the end, i see it as zen-like, i.e., living in the moment and not having expectations or particular cravings (other than his loving jenny.) so he ends up just stumbling into all the major historical events of the time. granted, he achieves this only because he doesn't have the brains to think otherwise and actually have expectations, but so many of our problems are because we do have higher intellect and desires, which ironically makes us unhappy because we know what we are missing. we love our cats and dogs for the same simplicity and always being in the moment. there's a line in the movie wondering if everything is predestined or happens randomly or it's a combination of both. it is something to mull over for a long time. helpful?473 99 sundrymules jun 20, 2005 faq20 who is the man with the "flag shirt" that says the f word a lot? what is forrest gump about? why did jenny left forrest before he went to the long run? details edit release date july 6, 1994 (canada) country of origin united states official site official facebook language english also known as cu?c ??i forrest gump filming locations chippewa square, savannah, georgia, usa production companies paramount pictures the steve tisch company wendy finerman productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $55,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $330,455,270 opening weekend us & canada $24,450,602 jul 10, 1994 gross worldwide $678,226,133 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 22 minutes color color black and white sound mix dolby sr sdds dolby atmos aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news oscars draw 16.6 million viewers, the show?s second smallest audience of all time mar 29indiewire why ?the power of the dog? got dogged (column) mar 26variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
