https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0172495/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_37::gladiator (2000) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) gladiator 20002000 1818 2h 35m imdb rating 8.5/10 1.4m your rating rate popularity 235 22 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:45 6 videos 99+ photos actionadventuredrama a former roman general sets out to exact vengeance against the corrupt emperor who murdered his family and sent him into slavery.a former roman general sets out to exact vengeance against the corrupt emperor who murdered his family and sent him into slavery.a former roman general sets out to exact vengeance against the corrupt emperor who murdered his family and sent him into slavery. imdb rating 8.5/10 1.4m your rating rate popularity 235 22 director ridley scott writers david franzoni(story) john logan(screenplay) william nicholson(screenplay) stars russell crowe joaquin phoenix connie nielsen top credits director ridley scott writers david franzoni(story) john logan(screenplay) william nicholson(screenplay) stars russell crowe joaquin phoenix connie nielsen see production, box office & company info 2.8kuser reviews 216critic reviews 67metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #37 won 5 oscars 59 wins & 106 nominations total videos6 trailer 2:45 official trailer trailer 1:25 gladiator clip 1:40 a guide to the films of ridley scott clip 4:38 streaming passport: the roman empire video 3:02 what roles has joaquin phoenix turned down? video 2:26 'creed ii' cast on knockout soundtracks and inspiring scenes photos310 top cast edit russell crowe maximusas maximus joaquin phoenix commodusas commodus connie nielsen lucillaas lucilla oliver reed proximoas proximo richard harris marcus aureliusas marcus aurelius derek jacobi gracchusas gracchus djimon hounsou jubaas juba david schofield falcoas falco john shrapnel gaiusas gaius tomas arana quintusas quintus ralf moeller hagenas hagen spencer treat clark luciusas lucius david hemmings cassiusas cassius tommy flanagan ciceroas cicero sven-ole thorsen tigrisas tigris omid djalili slave traderas slave trader nicholas mcgaughey praetorian officeras praetorian officer chris kell scribeas scribe director ridley scott writers david franzoni(story) (screenplay) john logan(screenplay) william nicholson(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.4 braveheart watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.8 inception watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.3 inglourious basterds watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options storyline edit maximus is a powerful roman general, loved by the people and the aging emperor, marcus aurelius. before his death, the emperor chooses maximus to be his heir over his own son, commodus, and a power struggle leaves maximus and his family condemned to death. the powerful general is unable to save his family, and his loss of will allows him to get captured and put into the gladiator games until he dies. the only desire that fuels him now is the chance to rise to the top so that he will be able to look into the eyes of the man who will feel his revenge. ?chris "morphy" terry roman empiregladiatorslaverycombatbattlefield433 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines father of a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife and i shall have my vengeance in this life or the next genres action adventure drama certificate 18 parents guide did you know edit trivia oliver reed died three weeks before principal photography ended. because proximo was considered a key character, a clause in the movie's insurance contract would have allowed the filmmakers to re-shoot all of reed's scenes with another actor at the insurer's expense, about $25 million. however, most of the actors and crew were exhausted from the punishing schedule, and ridley scott did not want to cut reed from the movie. the script was rewritten, and a body double and cgi were used to give reed's character a plausible resolution. goofs during the battle of carthage, maximus frees a horse from the chariot and rides it. the horse is wearing a saddle, which it wouldn't wear if it was pulling a chariot. quotes commodus: rise. rise. [maximus stands up, clenching an arrow head in his right hand] commodus: your fame is well deserved, spaniard. i don't think there's ever been a gladiator to match you. as for this young man, he insists you are hector reborn. or was it hercules? why doesn't the hero reveal himself and tell us all your real name? you do have a name. maximus: my name is gladiator. [turns away from commodus] commodus: how dare you show your back to me! slave, you will remove your helmet and tell me your name. maximus: [removes helmet and turns around to face commodus] my name is maximus decimus meridius, commander of the armies of the north, general of the felix legions and loyal servant to the true emperor, marcus aurelius. father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. and i will have my vengeance, in this life or the next. [commodus trembles in disbelief] quintus: arms! [praetorians point their spears at the gladiators while the colosseum crowd chants for them to live. commodus shakes his head and motions the crowd for silence. he then raises his fist and reluctantly gives the thumbs-up signal] crazy credits both the dreamworks & universal logos are altered to appear gold in color so they match the opening theme of maximus walking through a wheatfield. alternate versions the 3 disc special edition vcd (video cd) is edited: excessive sexual and violent scenes, including profanities are censored. connections edited into yoostar 2: in the movies (2011) soundtracks pavor written by walter maioli and nathalie van ravenstein (as natalia van ravenstein) performed by synaulia courtesy of amiata media, s.r.l. user reviews2.8k review top review cecil b demille eat your heart out the epic blockbuster returns with the 21st century's answer to cecil b demille, ridley scott and his dramatic tale of courage and revenge, gladiator - "the general who became a slave, the slave who became a gladiator, the gladiator who defied an emperor". once a great roman general, and as good as adopted son of marcus aurelius caesar (harris), maximus (crowe) is forced into exile by commodus (phoenix), heir to the throne, after the death of marcus. saved from death by slavers, he is purchased for use as a gladiator by proximo (reed) and ends up in the arena of all arena's, the colloseum, where he proves unbeatable under his guise as "the spaniard". and with a budget of over $100m, scott certainly delivers the goods. gladiator transcends the notion of 'blockbuster' that we have become accustomed to in the age of electronic and special effects wizardry and instead offers a good old fashioned action film along the lines of spartacus and and ben hur. not only are we drawn into an archetypal story that contains all the classic elements a filmgoer could dream of (love, loss, courage, despair, good triumphing over evil etc etc) - also on offer is a visual feast of cinematic painting after painting - a rich tapestry of images that are breathtaking and ultimately visually satisfying. from the plains of germania, to the desert stronghold of zuchobar, and finally to great rome herself, john mathiesion, the cinematographer is to be commended highly for his general inventiveness and ability to capture so much on film. the opening battle scene is superb as a cast of thousands erupt across the screen and provide an indication that we are about to see a film that pays incredible attention to detail throughout its entirety. in every way, scott has created a world for us that scuttles films of similar epic undertakings (and budgets!) and sends them to their dooms at the bottom of the murky depths of film history where they belong. the cast is generally very strong. crowe proves himself very suitable to the task with a great emotional range and depth of character. his accent ocassionally bugged me (as did the mish mash of accents on offer - but that is i guess a legacy of 'internationally casted films'), but this aside, he was well and truly up to the task. phoenix is also excellent as the disturbed commodus, as is nielson as lucilla, the daughter of marcus who "should have been a son" and finds herself torn between loyalty to her brother and doing what is 'right'. the old guard thesps of harris, reed and jacobi (grachus) are uniformly strong as supporting characters, and spencer treat clark (lucius) does a fine job as the young heir to the throne. add to this great cast excellent editing and post production work, and an intricate soundscape (including a magnificent hans zimmer score), and you have a film that, despite its length, was highly palatable and had me in there from beginning to end. a must see. helpful?178 60 paulyb may 2, 2000 faq14 is joaquin phoenix's villain character commodus based on a historical real life person in medieval times? what is gladiator about? what is maximus's war ritual, i.e., rubbing his hands with dirt, and why does he use it? details edit release date may 5, 2000 (united states) countries of origin united states united kingdom malta morocco official site official facebook language english also known as gladiateur filming locations malta production companies dreamworks pictures universal pictures scott free productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $103,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $187,705,427 opening weekend us & canada $34,819,017 may 7, 2000 gross worldwide $465,380,802 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 35 minutes color color sound mix sdds dolby digital dolby atmos aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news john carney to direct paramount?s bee gees biopic mar 30the wrap ?once? director john carney to direct bee gees biopic for paramount, john logan to pen script mar 30deadline film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of gladiator (2000) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
