https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyph::glyph - wikipedia glyph from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search element of writing for other uses, see glyph (disambiguation). look up glyph in wiktionary, the free dictionary. the term glyph /?l?f/ is used in typography, architecture and archaeology. broadly, the term means any kind of purposeful mark, such as a simple vertical line incised on a building, a single letter in a script, or a carved symbol. this page uses orthographic and related notations. for the notations ? ?, / / and [ ] used in this article, see ipa brackets and transcription delimiters. contents 1 etymology 2 architecture 3 archaeology 4 typography 4.1 distinctions 5 see also 6 notes 7 references 8 external links etymology[edit] the term has been used in english since 1727, borrowed from glyphe (in use by french antiquaries since 1701), from the greek ?????, glyph?, "carving," and the verb ???????, gl?phein, "to hollow out, engrave, carve" (cognate with latin glubere "to peel" and english cleave).[1] the word hieroglyph (greek for sacred writing) has a longer history in english, dating from an early use in an english-to-italian dictionary published by john florio in 1598, referencing the complex and mysterious characters of the egyptian alphabet.[2] the word glyph first came to widespread european attention with the engravings and lithographs from frederick catherwood's drawings of undeciphered glyphs of the maya civilization in the early 1840s.[3] architecture[edit] the roman doric order from the theater of marcellus: triglyphs centered over the end column in architecture, the term glyph is used to describe a vertical mark in the facade of a building. one of the most well-known form of this is the triglyph (three glyphs), the vertical bands of the doric frieze in classical architecture.[4] archaeology[edit] mayan glyph for day 10 of the tzolkin calendar in archaeology, a glyph is a carved or inscribed symbol.[5] it may be a pictogram or ideogram, or part of a writing system such as a syllable, or a logogram. typography[edit] various glyphs representing the lower case letter "a"; they are allographs of the grapheme ?a? in typography, a glyph is an elemental symbol within an agreed set of symbols, intended to represent a readable character for the purposes of writing. glyphs are considered to be unique marks that collectively add up to the spelling of a word or contribute to a specific meaning of what is written, with that meaning dependent on cultural and social usage. a glyph is "the specific shape, design, or representation of a character".[6] it is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface, of an element of written language, which could be a grapheme, or part of a grapheme, or sometimes several graphemes in combination (a composed glyph).[a] if there is more than one allograph of a unit of writing, and the choice between them depends on context or on the preference of the author, they now have to be treated as separate glyphs, because mechanical arrangements have to be available to differentiate between them and to print whichever of them is required. the same is true in computing. in computing as well as typography, the term "character" refers to a grapheme or grapheme-like unit of text, as found in natural language writing systems (scripts). in typography and computing, the range of graphemes is broader than in a written language in other ways too: a typeface often has to cope with a range of different languages each of which contribute their own graphemes, and it may also be required to print non-language symbols such as dingbats. the range of glyphs required increases correspondingly. in summary, in typography and computing, a glyph is a graphical unit.[7] distinctions[edit] this section needs additional citations for verification. please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. unsourced material may be challenged and removed. find sources: "glyph" ? news ? newspapers ? books ? scholar ? jstor (september 2021) (learn how and when to remove this template message) the adjacent characters, ? (long s) and i (that would separately be represented by two distinct graphemes ??? and ?i?), represented as a single glyph (typographic ligature), ?i in most languages written in any variety of the latin alphabet, the dot on a lower-case ?i? is not a glyph because it does not convey any distinction, and an ??? in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly. however, in turkish this dot is a glyph because that language has two distinct versions of the letter i, with and without a dot. also, in japanese syllabaries, a number of the characters are made up of more than one separate mark, but in general these separate marks are not glyphs because they have no meaning by themselves. however, in some cases, additional marks fulfill the role of diacritics, to differentiate distinct characters. such additional marks constitute glyphs. in general, a diacritic is a glyph, even if it is contiguous with the rest of the character like a cedilla in french or catalan, the ogonek in several languages, or the stroke on a polish "?". some characters such as "?" in icelandic and the "?" in german may be regarded as glyphs. they were originally typographic ligatures, but over time have become characters in their own right; these languages treat them as unique letters. however, a ligature such as "fi", that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of the typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme. in normal handwriting, even long words are often written "joined up", without the pen leaving the paper, and the form of each written letter will often vary depending on which letters precede and follow it, but that does not make the whole word into a single glyph. see also[edit] anaglyph 3d ? method of representing images in 3d basic glyphs for arabic language ? unicode code block arabic presentation forms-b character encoding ? using numbers to represent text characters complex text layout ? neighbour-dependent grapheme positioning diacritic ? mark added to a letter hieroglyph ? pictographic sign letterform ? term to refer to a letter's shape letter cutting ? form of inscriptional architectural lettering ornament (art) ? decoration used to embellish parts of a building or object palaeography ? study of historic handwriting petroglyph ? images carved on a rock surface as a form of rock art punchcutting ? craft used in traditional typography to cut letter punches in steel notes[edit] ^ for example, the sequence fi contains two characters, but can be represented by one glyph, the two characters being combined into a single unit known as a ligature. conversely, some older models of typewriters require the use of multiple glyphs to depict a single character, as an overstruck apostrophe and period to create an exclamation mark references[edit] ^ see the oxford english dictionary under headword "cleave" for the cited greek etymology. ^ "home : oxford english dictionary". oed.com. retrieved 21 february 2017. ^ "maya". ancientscripts.com. archived from the original on 12 december 2010. retrieved 6 february 2018. ^ "triglyph: architecture: use in doric order". britannica. retrieved 26 september 2021. ^ "glyph". vocabulary.com. retrieved 26 september 2021. ^ ilene strizver. "confusing (and frequently misused) type terminology, part 1". fonts.com. monotype imaging. archived from the original on 25 december 2011. ^ ken whistler; mark davis; asmus freytag (11 november 2008). "characters vs glyphs". unicode consortium. external links[edit] the dictionary definition of glyph at wiktionary media related to glyphs at wikimedia commons v t e lexicology major terms lexical item lexicon lexis word elements chereme glyphs grapheme lemma lexeme morpheme phoneme seme sememe semantic relations antonymy hyponymy and hypernymy meronymy and holonymy idiom lexical semantics semantic network synonym troponymy functions function word headword fields controlled vocabulary english lexicology and lexicography international scientific vocabulary lexicographic error lexicographic information cost linguistic prescription morphology specialized lexicography linguistics portal v t e typography page canons of page construction column even working margin page numbering pagination pull quote recto and verso intentionally blank page paragraph alignment leading river runaround widows and orphans character typeface anatomy counter diacritics dingbat glyph initial ink trap ligature rotation subscript and superscript swash text figures tittle capitalization all caps camel case letter case small caps visual distinction italics oblique bold color printing underline blackboard bold blackletter horizontal aspects figure space kerning letter-spacing paren space sentence spacing space thin space vertical aspects ascender baseline body height cap height descender median overshoot x-height typeface classifications roman type serif (antiqua, didone, slab serif) sans-serif blackletter type fraktur rotunda schwabacher gaelic type insular uncial specialist record type display typeface (script, fat face, reverse-contrast) punctuation dashes hanging punctuation hyphen-minus hyphenation prime mark quotation mark typesetting etaoin shrdlu font computer monospaced font catalog for position only letterpress lorem ipsum microprinting microtypography movable type pangram phototypesetting punchcutting reversing type type color type design typeface list typographic units agate cicero em en measure pica point traditional point-size names proposed metric units twip digital typography character encoding hinting rasterization typographic features web typography b?zier curves desktop publishing related articles calligraphy type design style guide type foundry history of western typography intellectual property protection of typefaces technical lettering related tables punctuation and other typographic symbols category retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=glyph&oldid=1068316961" categories: archaeological terminology graphemes glyphs infographics typographical symbols typography hidden categories: articles with short description short description matches wikidata use dmy dates from june 2021 articles needing additional references from september 2021 all articles needing additional references commons category link from wikidata navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons languages ??????? ????? b?n-l?m-g? ?????????? ????????? bosanski catal? ?e?tina cymraeg deutsch eesti ???????? espa?ol esperanto euskara ????? fran?ais gaeilge galego ??? bahasa indonesia italiano krey?l ayisyen ?????????? n?huatl nederlands ??? ??????? norsk bokm?l norsk nynorsk occitan polski portugu?s rom?n? ??????? simple english sloven?ina ?????? / srpski suomi svenska tagalog ??? t?rk?e ?????????? ti?ng vi?t ?? ?? edit links this page was last edited on 27 january 2022, at 19:34 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
