https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095327/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_48::grave of the fireflies (1988) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) grave of the fireflies original title: hotaru no haka 19881988 pgpg 1h 29m imdb rating 8.5/10 264k your rating rate popularity 953 232 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:47 4 videos 99+ photos animationdramawar a young boy and his little sister struggle to survive in japan during world war ii.a young boy and his little sister struggle to survive in japan during world war ii.a young boy and his little sister struggle to survive in japan during world war ii. imdb rating 8.5/10 264k your rating rate popularity 953 232 director isao takahata writers akiyuki nosaka(novel) isao takahata stars tsutomu tatsumi(voice) ayano shiraishi(voice) akemi yamaguchi(voice) top credits director isao takahata writers akiyuki nosaka(novel) isao takahata stars tsutomu tatsumi(voice) ayano shiraishi(voice) akemi yamaguchi(voice) see production, box office & company info 909user reviews 137critic reviews 94metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #48 awards 3 wins videos4 trailer 1:47 grave of the fireflies clip 1:48 what to watch when you need a good cry clip 2:25 what to watch when you need a good cry video 1:51 when you need a good cry photos200 top cast edit tsutomu tatsumi seitaas seita (voice) ayano shiraishi setsukoas setsuko (voice) akemi yamaguchi auntas aunt (voice) yoshiko shinohara motheras mother (voice) k?z? hashida obayashi chairmanas obayashi chairman (voice) masayo sakai woman who takes care of setsukoas woman who takes care of setsuko (voice) kazumi nozaki cousinas cousin (voice) yoshio matsuoka gosakuas gosaku (voice) masahiro kanetake aunt's house guestas aunt's house guest (voice) kiyoshi yanagawa patrolmanas patrolman (voice) hajime maki man who arrests seitaas man who arrests seita (voice) atsuo omote person in bankas person in bank (voice) teruhisa harita station workeras station worker (voice) hiroshi tanaka person in bankas person in bank (voice) michio denp? station workeras station worker (voice) ? shir? tamaki person in bankas person in bank (voice) tadashi nakamura mika sekita nurseas nurse (voice) director isao takahata writers akiyuki nosaka(novel) isao takahata all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.4 princess mononoke watch options 8.4 your name. 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 7.5 hotaru no haka 8.0 nausica? of the valley of the wind watch options 8.6 seppuku 8.5 modern times watch options 8.1 the shape of voice 8.5 parasite 8.6 city of god watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options 8.5 psycho watch options storyline edit the story of seita and setsuko, two young japanese siblings, living in the declining days of world war ii. when an american firebombing separates the two children from their parents, the two siblings must rely completely on one another while they struggle to fight for their survival. ?kyle perez orphanfoodsurvivalolder brother younger sistertheft255 more plot summary plot synopsis genres animation drama war certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia this film was initially distributed with tonari no totoro (1988) because it was the only way that miyazaki could have been able to make "totoro." the reason being that the original film pitch for that film was rejected, so they pitched a double feature with "grave of the fireflies," and the project was eventually backed financially by the original writer of the book on which "grave" is based. it often was overlooked as a film because whenever "totoro" was screened first, people were left happy and did not wish to be saddened by "grave" afterward. goofs right at the beginning, someone places what looks like a rice ball loosely wrapped in some tree bark as a protective cover next to the boy known as seita. the scene cuts to seita's face and soon after he collapses, the wrapped rice ball is nowhere to be seen. quotes [first lines] seita: september 21, 1945... that was the night i died. connections featured in siskel & ebert & the movies: true crime/ravenous/the king and i/forces of nature/the harmonists (1999) soundtracks home sweet home written by h.r. bishop (uncredited) performed by amelita galli-curci courtesy of rca victor red seal, a division of bmg classics user reviews909 review top review 10/10 a powerful film that shows the true cost of war "grave of the fireflies" is one of the most ambitious, depressing, and quite frankly, best films that i've ever seen. i was nearly moved to tears by this film's brave treatment of such critical subject matter. yes, it's an anime' piece, but surprisingly, it came out in 1988, during a time where most japanese animation films were either relentless bloodbaths, borderline pornography, or both. as a fan of the anime' genre of film-making, many great pieces have achieved some sort of cult status here in america, yet none have really reached mainstream success. some have broken through the barrier and have gained acceptance with american critics, like katsuhiro otomo's "akira," or "princess mononoke," or "spirited away" (both films directed by hayao miyazaki). one that i've seen and has been barely mentioned by most critics is "grave of the fireflies." what we have with "grave of the fireflies," is a story of innocence lost and two children who ultimately face a losing battle with trying to survive in a small japanese village in the closing days of world war ii. wwii was the costliest conflict in world history, with millions dead and thousands left to pick up the pieces. in the center of it, are the aforementioned two children, who are pretty much left to fend for themselves after their mother is killed in a bombing raid. because their father is off fighting in the war and they have no way of contacting any other family, they're sent to live with their aunt, who is at first warm and welcoming to them, but eventually becomes very cruel and the children are forced to live in a nearby bomb shelter. from that point on, the two children embark on a journey that is every bit as unpleasant and difficult as the grim realities of the world around them. very easily one of the best anime' films that i've ever seen (or any animated film for that matter), i find it difficult to believe just how truly overlooked "grave of the fireflies" is. the animation is beautiful, though certainly not dated by any means (even though japanese animation has progressed well since this film was made). we get a sense of the dread of the two lead characters, who watch as the world around them crumbles into heaps of ashes, and aircraft loom ominously overhead, dropping their deadly, incendiary cargo on unsuspecting japanese villagers. the director, isao takahata, obviously has a special resentment of the war, but manages to avoid condemning it outright. the director instead lets us focus in on the conflict as seen through the eyes of the two children, who watch unflinchingly as the realities of their world begin to falter before them. "grave of the fireflies" is a bold statement on the condition of the human soul during conflict. i probably shouldn't say this but i am anyways, but this film has to be the "schindler's list" of animated pieces. it's brave, it's not overly sentimental, but it is relentless in its dramatization of a dangerous reality. it should be required viewing in any high school world history class. a beautiful film; not to be missed by anyone. helpful?319 26 dee.reid aug 28, 2004 faq3 is this movie based on a (graphic) novel? what's in the box that seita carries with him? details edit release date april 16, 1988 (canada) country of origin japan language japanese also known as le tombeau des lucioles production companies shinchosha company studio ghibli see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $3,700,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $516,962 opening weekend us & canada $158,101 aug 12, 2018 gross worldwide $516,962 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 29 minutes color color sound mix dolby stereo aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news the 10 best war movies of all time, according to letterboxd jan 28screenrant.com anime review: grave of the fireflies (1988) by isao takahata sep 13asianmoviepulse contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of hotaru no haka (1988) in germany? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
