https://www.imdb.com/starmeterawards/?ref_=nv_ev_sma::imdb starmeter awards - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) imdb starmeter awards home video lauren ridloff receives the imdb fan favorite starmeter award ben barnes receives the imdb fan favorite starmeter award adarsh gourav receives the imdb breakout starmeter award eiza gonz?lez receives the imdb fan favorite starmeter award karen fukuhara receives the imdb "fan favorite" starmeter award anya chalotra receives the imdb starmeter award daisy edgar-jones receives the imdb starmeter award john david washington receives 2018 imdb starmeter award rachel brosnahan receives the imdb starmeter award nicholas braun receives the imdb starmeter award dacre montgomery receives the imdb starmeter award priyanka chopra jonas receives the imdb starmeter award riz ahmed receives the imdb starmeter award mindy kaling receives the imdb starmeter award jacob elordi receives the imdb starmeter award olivia cooke receives the imdb starmeter award salma hayek pinault receives imdb's first "icon" award eternals star salma hayek pinault receives the first-ever imdb "icon" starmeter award, created in honor of the 20th anniversary of imdbpro, and shares why it's so important to celebrate women's contributions to cinema. watch now imdb starmeter award winners rachel brosnahan priyanka chopra jonas reg?-jean page imdb starmeter awards recognize the stars who are fan favorites on the imdbpro starmeter chart, determined by the page views of the more than 200 million unique monthly visitors to imdb worldwide. see all the recipients imdb fan favorite starmeter award winners which imdb starmeter award-winning celebrities have nabbed the title of "fan favorite"? check out our list to find out. see the full list imdb breakout starmeter award winners a memorable role can quickly propel an up-and-coming actor to celebrity status. see all the imdb starmeter award winners who received "breakout star" distinction. see the full list stan lee receives the imdb starmeter award for lifetime achievement legend stan lee received the first-ever "imdb starmeter award for lifetime achievement" for his role in the creation of beloved characters and franchises including spider-man, iron man, and the avengers. watch now imdb starmeter award press inquiries to request an interview or additional information about imdb starmeter awards, please send an email to press@imdb.com. please note: imdb's press email alias is for use exclusively by film/talent publicists and journalists on deadline. inquiries about other topics will not receive a response. for all other inquiries, please contact imdb's helpdesk. imdb starmeter awards imdb and imdbpro present starmeter ?fan favorite? and ?breakout star? awards throughout the year at major entertainment events such as the sundance film festival, toronto international film festival, cannes film festival and comic-con international: san diego. the awards are based on the imdbpro exclusive starmeter rankings chart, which highlight the actors most searched by hundreds of millions of imdb customers all over the world. imdb starmeter awards have proven to be a keenly accurate predictor of stars who are about to have a breakthrough career moment. imdb starmeter announcements march 3, 2022 salma hayek pinault receives the first-ever imdb "icon" starmeter award february 17, 2022 lauren ridloff receives an imdb "fan favorite" starmeter award december 2, 2021 adarsh gourav receives an imdb "breakout" starmeter award december 1, 2021 ben barnes receives an imdb "fan favorite" starmeter award october 1, 2021 natasha bharadwaj receives an imdb "breakout" starmeter award september 22, 2021 eiza gonzalez receives an imdb "fan favorite" starmeter award celebrating hispanic heritage month may 16, 2021 karen fukuhara receives an imdb starmeter award at identity 2021 celebrating asian pacific american heritage month february 16, 2021 reg?-jean page receives an imdb starmeter award december 1, 2020 imdb announces the top stars and top breakout stars of 2020 and presents a starmeter award to anya chalotra september 1, 2020 imdb announces top tv shows of the year so far as determined by user ratings and presents a starmeter award to daisy edgar-jones january 28, 2020 amy ryan receives the imdb starmeter award at the imdb 30th anniversary dinner party at the 2020 sundance film festival january 25, 2020 nicholas braun receives the imdb starmeter award at the 2020 sundance film festival january 24, 2020 rachel brosnahan receives the imdb starmeter award at the 2020 sundance film festival read more announcements imdb starmeter quotes "imdb is such an invaluable resource for everyone who goes to see films and everyone who works in films. it is a real privilege to receive this award." ? felicity jones see all imdb starmeter award winners clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
