https://www.imdb.com/imdbpicks/womenshistorymonth/?ref_=nv_ev_whm::imdb picks - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) imdb picks home women's history month video imdb's tribute to the funny women of television director's trademarks: 'power of the dog' director jane campion salute to women directors rosalie chiang and sandra oh answer burning questions how well does amy poehler know her imdb page? halle berry career retrospective a salute to trailblazing women marlee matlin shares the importance of authentic representation domee shi on the credit that changed her life celebrating women directors on set 20 upcoming movies directed by women we spotlight the projects directed by women premiering in theaters, film festivals, and streaming platforms around the world in 2022. update your watchlist! see our picks salma hayek pinault receives imdb's first "icon" award eternals star salma hayek pinault receives the first-ever imdb "icon" starmeter award, created in honor of the 20th anniversary of imdbpro, and shares why it's so important to celebrate women's contributions to cinema. watch now recent movies that pass the bechdel test inspired by alison bechdel's comic strip 'the rule,' the bechdel test is a simple measure to see if women are fairly represented in a film. for a film to pass the bechdel test, the movie must meet the following bar: 1) it must have at least two female characters; 2) they must both have names; 3) they must talk to each other about something other than a man. see the list how kristen stewart nailed princess di's accent spencer star kristen stewart shares what made mastering princess di's accent a challenge, what she nicked from the film set, and more. watch now portraits from the women in film oscar nominees party check out portraits captured at the 15th annual women in film oscar nominees party, sponsored by imdb and imdbpro. see the full gallery tv's greatest comedies featuring funny women build your watchlist with the television shows featured in the imdb tribute to the funny women of television. see the list funny women of television we salute the brilliant women behind all those unforgettable laughs on the small screen. view the gallery aunjanue ellis shares her three most pivotal roles aunjanue ellis reveals the three roles that best represent her prolific career, including her academy award-nominated performance in king richard. watch the video maggie gyllenhaal and dakota johnson get candid the lost daughter writer-director maggie gyllenhaal and star dakota johnson make like freaky friday and answer questions from each other, as each other. watch the interview women superheroes who kick some serious ass we salute black widow, okoye, wonder woman, and the other amazing, fearless women who put the "super" in "superhero." view some kick-ass women superheroes the rise of kirsten dunst "no small parts" takes a look at oscar-nominee kirsten dunst's early days as a child actress and her meteoric rise to fame. watch now jessica chastain faced her worst fears as tammy faye jessica chastain and andrew garfield share how they learned to act through prosthetics in the eyes of tammy faye and reveal the scariest challenge they faced when tackling the roles of the real-life televangelists. watch the interview follow us on twitter clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
