https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1375666/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_13::inception (2010) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) inception 20102010 pgpg 2h 28m imdb rating 8.8/10 2.3m your rating rate popularity 123 3 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:45 27 videos 99+ photos actionadventuresci-fi a thief who steals corporate secrets through the use of dream-sharing technology is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a c.e.o., but his tragic past may doom the pro... read alla thief who steals corporate secrets through the use of dream-sharing technology is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a c.e.o., but his tragic past may doom the project and his team to disaster.a thief who steals corporate secrets through the use of dream-sharing technology is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a c.e.o., but his tragic past may doom the project and his team to disaster. imdb rating 8.8/10 2.3m your rating rate popularity 123 3 director christopher nolan writer christopher nolan stars leonardo dicaprio joseph gordon-levitt elliot page top credits director christopher nolan writer christopher nolan stars leonardo dicaprio joseph gordon-levitt elliot page see production, box office & company info 4.5kuser reviews 480critic reviews 74metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #13 won 4 oscars 157 wins & 220 nominations total videos27 trailer 1:45 10th anniversary dream trailer trailer 2:03 inception -- characters trailer 2:25 inception: trailer #2 trailer 1:23 inception: trailer #1 trailer 1:05 inception: teaser trailer trailer 1:18 inception clip 5:09 'tenet' fan theories: what we got right (and wrong) clip 2:47 what to watch if you love 'inception' clip 1:32 'inception' | anniversary mashup clip 2:03 a guide to the films of christopher nolan clip 3:51 joseph gordon-levitt on how '7500' is not your typical action movie clip 1:14 inception photos387 top cast edit leonardo dicaprio cobbas cobb joseph gordon-levitt arthuras arthur elliot page ariadneas ariadne ken watanabe saitoas saito tom hardy eamesas eames dileep rao yusufas yusuf cillian murphy robert fischeras robert fischer tom berenger browningas browning marion cotillard malas mal pete postlethwaite maurice fischeras maurice fischer michael caine milesas miles lukas haas nashas nash tai-li lee tadashias tadashi claire geare phillipa (3 years old)as phillipa (3 years old) magnus nolan james (20 months old)as james (20 months old) taylor geare phillipa (5 years old)as phillipa (5 years old) johnathan geare james (3 years old)as james (3 years old) tohoru masamune japanese security guardas japanese security guard director christopher nolan writer christopher nolan all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro what to watch if you love 'inception' what to watch if you love 'inception' here are three streaming picks that capture the spirit of christopher nolan's mind-bending masterpiece in their own way. watch the video 2:47 more like this 8.7 interstellar watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 9.1 the dark knight watch options 8.4 joker watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.2 the wolf of wall street watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.7 the matrix watch options 8.2 shutter island watch options storyline edit dom cobb is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state, when the mind is at its most vulnerable. cobb's rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved. now cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. one last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible, inception. instead of the perfect heist, cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea, but to plant one. if they succeed, it could be the perfect crime. but no amount of careful planning or expertise can prepare the team for the dangerous enemy that seems to predict their every move. an enemy that only cobb could have seen coming. ?warner bros. pictures dreamambiguous endingsubconscioussurprise endingmindbender450 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines your mind is the scene of the crime genres action adventure sci-fi thriller certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia in an interview with "entertainment weekly", writer, producer, and director christopher nolan explained that he based roles of the inception team similar to roles that are used in filmmaking, cobb is the director, arthur is the producer, ariadne is the production designer, eames is the actor, saito is the studio, and fischer is the audience. "in trying to write a team-based creative process, i wrote the one i know", said nolan. goofs when ariadne and cobb are at the caf?, a man in a yellow jacket passes behind cobb. the camera switches back and forth between cobb and ariadne several times. when it switches back to cobb, the man in the yellow jacket passes once again. the person in the jacket is a projection and based on what the movie explains, projections behave a lot like extras. this means the same projection may reappear like that. quotes cobb: what is the most resilient parasite? bacteria? a virus? an intestinal worm? an idea. resilient... highly contagious. once an idea has taken hold of the brain it's almost impossible to eradicate. an idea that is fully formed - fully understood - that sticks; right in there somewhere. crazy credits at the end of the credits ?dith piaf's "non, je ne regrette rien" plays at normal speed, then slows down to the speed it was at the beginning of the film during hans zimmer's score and throughout the movie. then we see the title stop in the center of the screen as the song ends. connections edited into the paul behragam talk show: "balto" r&t part 5 (2015) soundtracks non, je ne regrette rien music by charles dumont lyrics by michel vaucaire performed by ?dith piaf courtesy of emi music france under license from emi film & television music user reviews4.5k review top review 8/10 the pieces are amazing, but the whole is "only" very good the pieces of the movie are amazing: 1. hans zimmer's music is hauntingly beautiful, probably my favorite movie score ever. 2. the premise is unique and fascinating 3. the special effects are amazing and don't distract (unlike some pierce brosnan bond movies). they fit into the plot perfectly. 4. the acting is very good. but the assemled pieces make the whole only very good, not amazing: the movie is just too big, and they had to edit it to cut it down to essential info and scenes, resulting in a slightly unnatural flow that feels like trying to drink from a fire hose shoved in your mouth. a mild, subtle infodump feeling arises at times. there are no natural lulls or pauses to digest info. the first time watching you will feel absolutely lost for the first 45 minutes or so unless you read spoilers first, due to a combination of that flow and some out of sequence story telling. the 2nd time watching will be much more enjoyable than the first... it is that lesser enjoyment the first time through that keeps it from being amazing, knocking it down to just very good. there are two main storylines, one mostly in the present, the other about the main character's past...found myself wondering if the latter could have been less prominent or even cut to focus more on the former. helpful?7 0 abcprivateemail nov 14, 2021 faq62 is the michael caine character cobb or mal's father? why only cobb brought his own projections (mal, train, kids) in dreams? why didn't the others bring own problems/projections in the dreams? how does cobb know the combination of saito's safe from the beginning of the movie? details edit release date july 16, 2010 (canada) countries of origin united states united kingdom official sites official facebook warner bros. (japan) languages english japanese french also known as origine filming locations fortress mountain, kananaskis country, alberta, canada production companies warner bros. legendary entertainment syncopy see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $160,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $292,587,330 opening weekend us & canada $62,785,337 jul 18, 2010 gross worldwide $836,848,102 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 28 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital dts sdds aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news hans zimmer wins oscar for ?dune? score, accepts in a bathrobe mar 28variety film + tv hans zimmer wins his second career original score oscar for ?dune? mar 27deadline film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap by what name was inception (2010) officially released in india in hindi? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
