https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0038650/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_21::it's a wonderful life (1946) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) it's a wonderful life 19461946 gg 2h 10m imdb rating 8.7/10 442k your rating rate popularity 1,276 11 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:00 13 videos 99+ photos dramafamilyfantasy an angel is sent from heaven to help a desperately frustrated businessman by showing him what life would have been like if he had never existed.an angel is sent from heaven to help a desperately frustrated businessman by showing him what life would have been like if he had never existed.an angel is sent from heaven to help a desperately frustrated businessman by showing him what life would have been like if he had never existed. imdb rating 8.7/10 442k your rating rate popularity 1,276 11 director frank capra writers frances goodrich(screenplay by) albert hackett(screenplay by) frank capra(screenplay by) stars james stewart donna reed lionel barrymore top credits director frank capra writers frances goodrich(screenplay by) albert hackett(screenplay by) frank capra(screenplay by) stars james stewart donna reed lionel barrymore see production, box office & company info 1kuser reviews 193critic reviews 89metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #21 nominated for 5 oscars 6 wins & 6 nominations total videos13 trailer 1:00 it's a wonderful life clip 3:12 holiday movie or not? clip 8:43 guillermo del toro and neil gaiman find hope in powerful, eclectic films clip 2:09 what to watch: holiday movies on prime video for the whole family clip 2:06 holiday movies and tv specials that get you in the spirit clip 0:37 it's a wonderful life clip 0:46 it's a wonderful life clip 1:07 it's a wonderful life clip 0:55 it's a wonderful life full episode 3:39 what to watch: "the expanse" and expensive explosions full episode 3:11 what are these stars watching this holiday season? video 3:33 what's your favorite scene from a holiday movie? photos201 top cast edit james stewart george baileyas george bailey donna reed mary hatchas mary hatch lionel barrymore mr. potteras mr. potter thomas mitchell uncle billyas uncle billy henry travers clarenceas clarence beulah bondi mrs. baileyas mrs. bailey frank faylen ernieas ernie ward bond bertas bert gloria grahame violet beckas violet beck h.b. warner mr. goweras mr. gower frank albertson sam wainwrightas sam wainwright todd karns harry baileyas harry bailey samuel s. hinds pa baileyas pa bailey mary treen cousin tillyas cousin tilly virginia patton ruth dakinas ruth dakin charles williams cousin eustaceas cousin eustace sarah edwards mrs. hatchas mrs. hatch (as sara edwards) william edmunds mr. martinias mr. martini (as bill edmunds) director frank capra writers frances goodrich(screenplay by) albert hackett(screenplay by) frank capra(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 the lion king watch options 8.6 spirited away watch options 8.3 toy story watch options 8.4 wall?e watch options it's a wonderful life: the rest of the story 8.1 the wizard of oz watch options 8.3 toy story 3 watch options 8.1 the sound of music watch options 8.3 up watch options 8.2 finding nemo watch options 8.1 monsters, inc. watch options 8.1 beauty and the beast watch options storyline edit george bailey has spent his entire life giving of himself to the people of bedford falls. he has always longed to travel but never had the opportunity in order to prevent rich skinflint mr. potter from taking over the entire town. all that prevents him from doing so is george's modest building and loan company, which was founded by his generous father. but on christmas eve, george's uncle billy loses the business's $8,000 while intending to deposit it in the bank. potter finds the misplaced money and hides it from billy. when the bank examiner discovers the shortage later that night, george realizes that he will be held responsible and sent to jail and the company will collapse, finally allowing potter to take over the town. thinking of his wife, their young children, and others he loves will be better off with him dead, he contemplates suicide. but the prayers of his loved ones result in a gentle angel named clarence coming to earth to help george, with the promise of earning his wings. he shows george what things would have been like if he had never been born. ?alfiehitchie alternate historysmall town lifechristmasangel on earthguardian angel264 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines frank capra's..."it's a wonderful life". genres drama family fantasy romance certificate g parents guide did you know edit trivia for the scene that required donna reed to throw a rock through the window of the granville house, director frank capra hired a marksman to shoot it out on cue. to everyone's amazement, reed broke the window by herself. she had played baseball in high school and had a strong throwing arm. goofs at one point george (james stewart) calls violet (gloria grahame), gloria. quotes clarence: strange, isn't it? each man's life touches so many other lives. when he isn't around he leaves an awful hole, doesn't he? crazy credits a ringing facsimile of the liberty bell (without the crack) forms the backdrop for the studio logo, which is liberty films, and the opening credits are in a scrapbook with christmas decorations. the bell reappears before the end credits, and the end credits have a christmas card picture as a backdrop. alternate versions the film was colorized three times. the first colorized version of the film was produced by hal roach studios (now sonar entertainment), the second by republic pictures. a third colorization of the film was produced by legend films for paramount, the film's current copyright holder, in 2007. connections edited into have rocket -- will travel (1959) soundtracks buffalo gal (won't you come out tonight) (uncredited) written by william cool white user reviews1k review top review 10/10 a great influence... no movie ever made has influenced me more than this classic. i had the honor of doing a play version of it about 5 years ago. i had seen the film thousands of times, had loved it, but i never really knew what it meant. during the course of the production, i suddenly felt alive. i felt that i wasn't having enough fun. i felt that i wasn't doing enough in my life. crazy things, like kissing my mother or my father. i hadn't really hugged one of them in a while. it makes you think. it's more of a thinking person's film than a mere christmas film. if you think it's just a christmas film, i insist you watch it again and again, until you get the message. stewart gives the finest performance of his career, in one of the most difficult characters ever portrayed. a character all of us are familiar with...a person looking to find himself/herself. it's the great struggle for finding what it is in life you really want to do. george bailey teaches us so lessons throughout the film and in the end he teaches us the most important lesson of all, that life, although a long and winding road, truly is (for lack of a better word) wonderful... helpful?387 50 coxer99 mar 4, 1999 faq15 assuming harry followed george to the hill. if george was never born, then why would harry be sledding on that hill? why would the board members side with potter if george refused to take over the building & loan? what is "it's a wonderful life" about? details edit release date april 17, 1947 (canada) country of origin united states official site facebook languages english french also known as la vie est belle filming locations rko encino ranch - balboa boulevard & burbank boulevard, encino, los angeles, california, usa production company liberty films (ii) see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $3,180,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $44,000 opening weekend us & canada $44,000 dec 20, 2020 gross worldwide $6,184,298 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 10 minutes color black and white aspect ratio 1.37 : 1 related news ?everything everywhere all at once? film review: michelle yeoh anchors wild, heartfelt action comedy mar 12the wrap pete davidson officially rejoins instagram feb 17e! online contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of it's a wonderful life (1946) in spain? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
