https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_films_about_Wikipedia::list of films about wikipedia - wikipedia list of films about wikipedia from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search the following is a list of films about wikipedia. films[edit] the truth according to wikipedia (also referred to as wiki's warhead and wiki's truth) is a 2008 dutch documentary film about wikipedia directed by ijsbrand van veelen which was originally shown on backlight. the documentary examines the reliability of wikipedia, and the dichotomy between usage of experts versus amateur editors. the film includes commentary from wikipedia co-founders jimmy wales and larry sanger, the cult of the amateur author andrew keen, o'reilly media chief executive officer tim o'reilly, and former editor-in-chief of encyclop?dia britannica robert mchenry. keen argues that experts should serve as guardians of information during the web 2.0 phenomenon; this point of view is supported by analysis from sanger. the film was released both as a dutch-language and an english-language edition (with subtitles for interviews in other languages). truth in numbers? is a 2010 american documentary film which explores the history and cultural implications of the online user-editable encyclopedia wikipedia. the film attempts to answer the question of whether any individual or only experts should be tasked with editing an encyclopedia. a history and background of the website is given, as well as commentary from wikipedia founders jimmy wales and larry sanger. commentators that appear in the film include author howard zinn, len downie of the washington post, bob schieffer of cbs news, former encyclop?dia britannica chief robert mchenry, and former central intelligence agency director james woolsey. the documentary discusses incidents which shed a negative light on wikipedia, including the essjay controversy and the wikipedia biography controversy. play media people are knowledge people are knowledge is a film made during the course of a research project that explored how alternate methods of citation could be employed on wikipedia. the film documents a series of specific situations with regards to published knowledge, and, subsequently, with oral citations. it was made by priya sen, zen marie and achal prabhala. wikipedia and the democratization of knowledge is a 2021 german documentary film by the directors lorenza castella and jascha hannover. the film reviews the twenty-year history of wikipedia. thoughts on the project are shared from the founders jimmy wales and larry sanger, authors from germany, france, ghana, south africa, the united states and other countries. a south african wikipedian explains their experience with the xitsonga language wikipedia. wikipedia ? die schwarmoffensive is a 2021 german documentary film by mar?a teresa curzio. it was published september 2021 on the television channel 3sat. see also[edit] bibliography of wikipedia v t e wikipedia overview (outline) censorship citation needed conflict-of-interest editing criticism biases gender geographical ideological racial deletion of articles deletionism and inclusionism notability edit count fact-checking "ignore all rules" mediawiki predictions of the project's end reliability vandalism community administrators afrocrowd arbitration committee art+feminism bots lsjbot edit-a-thon list of wikipedias the signpost wiki indaba wiki loves monuments wiki loves pride wiki loves earth wiki loves folklore wikiconference india wikiconference north america wikimania wikipedian in residence wikiproject women in red people florence devouard sue gardner james heilman maryana iskander katherine maher magnus manske ira brad matetsky erik m?ller steven pruitt larry sanger mar?a sefidari lila tretikov jimmy wales wikipedians wikimedian of the year history bomis first edit logo controversies u.s. congressional staff edits essjay controversy seigenthaler biography incident henryk batuta hoax jar'edo wens hoax croatian wikipedia administration internet watch foundation scientology camera campaign italian wikipedia blackout english wikipedia blackout hillsborough disaster wikipedia posts mywikibiz visualeditor #1lib1ref coverage of american politics coverage of the covid-19 pandemic 2021 wmf actions on the chinese wikipedia coverage of the 2022 russian invasion of ukraine honors 2008 quadriga award wikipedia monument 2015 erasmus prize 2015 princess of asturias award references and analysis cultural bibliography films academic studies listen to wikipedia wiki-watch wikipediocracy wikiscanner wikipedia review mobile access apps qrpedia wapedia wikinodes wikipedia zero wikiwand content use books llc boundless (company) dbpedia deletionpedia kiwix wikireader science information health information similar projects interpedia nupedia citizendium enciclopedia libre universal en espa?ol everipedia veropedia list of online encyclopedias list of wikis related the iraq war: a historiography of wikipedia changelogs print wikipedia magna carta (an embroidery) wiki rabbit hole wikiracing 274301 wikipedia wikipedia for world heritage wikimedia foundation movement list category retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=list_of_films_about_wikipedia&oldid=1075229616" categories: lists of films by topic films about wikipedia lists about wikipedia hidden categories: articles with short description short description is different from wikidata articles containing spanish-language text navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version languages ????? espa?ol fran?ais bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu nederlands simple english ?? edit links this page was last edited on 4 march 2022, at 16:30 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
