https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Thornton::mark thornton - wikipedia mark thornton from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search american economist mark thornton mark thornton born (1960-06-07) june 7, 1960 (age 61) united states nationality american field economic history, political economy, prohibitionism, history of economic thought school or tradition austrian school influences frederic bastiat, ludwig von mises, murray rothbard, lew rockwell information at ideas / repec mark thornton (born june 7, 1960) is an american economist of the austrian school.[1] he has written on the topic of prohibition of drugs, the economics of the american civil war, and the "skyscraper index".[2] he is a senior fellow with the ludwig von mises institute[3] in alabama and a research fellow with the independent institute.[4] contents 1 life and academic career 1.1 prohibition studies 2 political activities 3 books 4 see also 5 notes 6 external links life and academic career[edit] mark thornton speaking about business cycles during the 2008 mises university conference. thornton grew up in geneva, new york in an irish catholic family of entrepreneurs who were "democrat in politics".[5] thornton received his b.s. from st. bonaventure university (1982), and his ph.d. from auburn university (1989). thornton taught economics at auburn university. he formerly taught at columbus state university where he was awarded the faculty research and scholarship award in 2002.[6] he is now a senior fellow at the ludwig von mises institute,[3] where he is book review editor for its quarterly journal of austrian economics.[7] as a writer for the mises institute, he is known for warning of a housing bubble in 2004.[8] published an articlehe has written about prohibition-related issues.[5] prohibition studies[edit] part of a series on libertarianism in the united states origins abolitionism in the united states age of enlightenment anti-federalism classical liberalism individualist anarchism in the united states transcendentalism concepts anti-imperialism civil libertarianism counter-economics decentralization departurism economic freedom evictionism free market free-market environmentalism free migration free trade free will freedom of association freedom of contract freedom of speech homestead principle individuality individualism libertarianism liberty limited government localism marriage privatization natural rights and legal rights non-aggression principle non-interventionism non-politics non-voting polycentric law private defense agency private property public choice theory restorative justice right to bear arms rugged individualism self-ownership single tax small government spontaneous order stateless society tax resistance title-transfer theory of contract voluntary association voluntary society schools austro-libertarianism bleeding-heart libertarianism christian libertarianism consequentialist libertarianism geolibertarianism green libertarianism natural-rights libertarianism neo-libertarianism paleolibertarianism technolibertarianism theory agorism anarcho-capitalism autarchism constitutionalism fusionism libertarian feminism left-wing market anarchism libertarian conservatism libertarian paternalism libertarian socialism libertarian transhumanism minarchism panarchism propertarianism voluntaryism economics austrian school economic liberalism fiscal conservatism georgism laissez-faire neoliberalism supply-side economics people amash andrews barnett block brennan burt caplan carson chartier chodorov chomsky coolidge epstein d. friedman m. friedman p. friedman r. friedman galambos garrett george gillespie goldwater greene harper hazlitt heinlein hess heywood hoppe hospers huemer jillette johnson jorgensen kinsella c. koch d. koch konkin iii c. lane r. lane lefevre machan mcelroy mencken mises napolitano nock nolan nozick paterson paul postrel pugsley rand read rockwell rothbard sarwark schulman sciabarra scott smith sowell skousen spooner stossel supreme swartz szasz taleb teller thiel thoreau tucker warren wilder williams woods history new left old right issues abortion capital punishment criticism foreign affairs immigration intellectual property internal debates lgbt rights objectivism political parties politics state theories of law culture come and take it gadsden flag libertarian science fiction ron swanson organizations cato institute free state project foundation for economic education international alliance of libertarian parties libertarian party liberty international mises institute reason foundation students for a democratic society students for liberty works the anarchist cookbook anarchy, state, and utopia the betrayal of the american right civil disobedience conceived in liberty defending the undefendable the discovery of freedom end the fed the ethics of liberty for a new liberty free to choose the god of the machine liberty the machinery of freedom man, economy and state the moon is a harsh mistress the mainspring of human progress the market for liberty no, they can't no treason new libertarian manifesto our enemy, the state the problem of political authority progress and poverty protection or free trade radicals for capitalism seeing like a state to serve and protect the unconstitutionality of slavery related topics american militia movement boogaloo movement conservatism in the united states dark enlightenment left-libertarianism liberalism in the united states libertarian democrat libertarian republican libertarianism in hong kong libertarianism in south africa libertarianism in the united kingdom new right objectivism on democracy in america outline of libertarianism right-libertarianism sovereign citizen movement liberalism portal conservatism portal libertarianism portal v t e thornton's first book, the economics of prohibition, was praised by thornton's supervisor at the mises institute, its vice-president murray rothbard, who is quoted on the book cover of the 2007 edition as writing: "thornton's book... arrives to fill an enormous gap, and it does so splendidly...this is an excellent work making an important contribution to scholarship as well as to the public policy debate."[9] reviewer david r. henderson of the hoover institution wrote, "thornton's book contains much valuable information on prohibition and cites many sources. but the economically literate book on prohibition that makes a case for legalization has yet to be written."[10] thornton debated the war on drugs at oxford union in 2014. libertarian organizations have published thornton's articles on drug and alcohol prohibition, and he was once interviewed on the topic of prohibition by agence france-presse.[11][12][13] thornton contributed a chapter to jefferson fish's book how to legalize drugs.[14] political activities[edit] thornton ran for u.s. congress in 1984.[15] thornton has been the vice chairman and chairman of the libertarian party of alabama. in 1988, he became the first libertarian party office-holder in alabama when he was elected constable, a local law-enforcement position.[5][16] he was the libertarian party's candidate for the u.s. senate in 1996. he was also endorsed by the reform party, and came in third of four candidates.[16] books[edit] the economics of prohibition. salt lake city, utah: university of utah press, 1991. ( isbn 0-87480-379-9) tariffs, blockades, and inflation: the economics of the civil war (with robert b. ekelund, jr). delaware: scholarly resource books, 2004. ( isbn 0-8420-2961-3) the quotable mises (editor). auburn, al: ludwig von mises institute, 2005. ( isbn 0-945466-45-5) the bastiat collection (editor). volume 1 and volume 2. auburn, al: ludwig von mises institute, 2007. ( isbn 978-1-933550-07-7) an essay on economic theory: an english translation of richard cantillon?s essai sur la nature du commerce en g?n?ral (thornton, editor; chantal saucier, translator) auburn, al: ludwig von mises institute, 2010. ( isbn 978-1-61016-001-8) see also[edit] list of austrian school economists list of auburn university people notes[edit] ^ dilorenzo, thomas (2011-02-11) my associations with liars, bigots, and murderers, lewrockwell.com ^ blumenthal, robin goldwyn; strauss, lawrence c. (november 16, 2013). "the skyscraper index: edifice complex". barron's. the u.s. has a new tallest building?one world trade center in new york?and that has conjured up some novel reading of economic tea leaves. ^ a b mark thornton fellow page, ludwig von mises institute website, accessed december 21, 2013. ^ mark thornton biography page at independent institute website, accessed december 21, 2013. ^ a b c joseph s. diedrich, libertarian america: a conversation with mark thornton, washington times, march 24, 2013. ^ "mark thornton". mises institute. 2014-06-20. retrieved 2019-02-28. ^ quarterly journal of austrian economics website archived 2008-05-11 at the wayback machine. ^ "when mainstream economics was wrong, mark thornton was right ? investing video & audio jay taylor media". jaytaylormedia.com. ^ mark thornton, the economics of prohibition, ludwig von mises institute, 2007, isbn 1610164652 ^ henderson, david. "review of economics of prohibition" (pdf). cato journal. 13 (1): 152?154. ^ "us drinks to 75 years since end of prohibition." agence france-presse. hosted by google. 4 december 2008. [1] ^ thornton, mark. "prohibition versus legalization: do economists reach a conclusion on drug policy?" independent institute. the independent review. winter 2007. [2] ^ thornton, mark. "alcohol prohibition was a failure." policy analysis no. 157. cato institute. 17 july 1991. [3] ^ thornton, m. (1998). "perfect drug legalization". in j. m. fish (ed.), how to legalize drugs (pp. 638?660). northvale, nj: jason aronson. isbn 978-0765701510 ^ gadsden times, nov 4, 1984. ^ a b mark thornton faculty page archived 2013-12-24 at the wayback machine, ludwig von mises institute website, accessed december 21, 2013. external links[edit] wikimedia commons has media related to mark thornton. mark thornton, profile in mises.org "how prohibition made pot more potent: q&a with auburn university's mark thornton." july 2013, reason magazine video, five minutes mark thornton publications indexed by google scholar "mark thornton". jstor. authority control general isni 1 viaf 1 worldcat national libraries norway france (data) germany united states netherlands scientific databases google scholar other sudoc (france) 1 retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=mark_thornton&oldid=1076185278" categories: 1960 births living people 21st-century american non-fiction writers 21st-century american male writers alabama libertarians american economics writers 21st-century american economists american political writers auburn university alumni auburn university faculty austrian school economists american drug policy reform activists mises institute people american male non-fiction writers hidden categories: webarchive template wayback links articles with short description short description is different from wikidata articles with hcards commons link from wikidata articles with isni identifiers articles with viaf identifiers articles with worldcatid identifiers articles with bibsys identifiers articles with bnf identifiers articles with gnd identifiers articles with lccn identifiers articles with nta identifiers articles with google scholar identifiers articles with sudoc identifiers place of birth missing (living people) navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons languages ??????? espa?ol italiano ???? edit links this page was last edited on 9 march 2022, at 20:22 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
