https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0027977/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_45::modern times (1936) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) modern times 19361936 gg 1h 27m imdb rating 8.5/10 236k your rating rate popularity 4,025 414 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics comedydramaromance the tramp struggles to live in modern industrial society with the help of a young homeless woman.the tramp struggles to live in modern industrial society with the help of a young homeless woman.the tramp struggles to live in modern industrial society with the help of a young homeless woman. imdb rating 8.5/10 236k your rating rate popularity 4,025 414 director charles chaplin writer charles chaplin stars charles chaplin paulette goddard henry bergman top credits director charles chaplin writer charles chaplin stars charles chaplin paulette goddard henry bergman see production, box office & company info 340user reviews 121critic reviews 96metascore see production, box office & company info see more at imdbpro top rated movie #45 awards 4 wins & 1 nomination photos111 top cast edit charles chaplin a factory workeras a factory worker paulette goddard a gaminas a gamin henry bergman cafe proprietoras cafe proprietor tiny sandford big billas big bill chester conklin mechanicas mechanic hank mann burglaras burglar stanley blystone gamin's fatheras gamin's father al ernest garcia president of the electro steel corp.as president of the electro steel corp. (as allan garcia) richard alexander prison cellmateas prison cellmate (as dick alexander) cecil reynolds ministeras minister mira mckinney minister's wifeas minister's wife (as myra mckinney) murdock macquarrie j. widdecombe billowsas j. widdecombe billows (as murdoch mcquarrie) wilfred lucas juvenile officeras juvenile officer edward lesaint sheriff couleras sheriff couler (as ed le sainte) fred malatesta cafe head waiteras cafe head waiter sammy stein turbine operatoras turbine operator (as sam stein) juana sutton woman with buttoned bosomas woman with buttoned bosom ted oliver billows' assistantas billows' assistant director charles chaplin writer charles chaplin all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 city lights watch options 8.4 the great dictator watch options 8.2 the gold rush watch options 8.5 psycho watch options 8.5 casablanca watch options 8.5 rear window watch options 8.5 once upon a time in the west watch options 8.7 seven samurai watch options 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 8.0 limelight watch options 8.6 seppuku 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options storyline edit chaplin's last 'silent' film, filled with sound effects, was made when everyone else was making talkies. charlie turns against modern society, the machine age, (the use of sound in films ?) and progress. firstly we see him frantically trying to keep up with a production line, tightening bolts. he is selected for an experiment with an automatic feeding machine, but various mishaps leads his boss to believe he has gone mad, and charlie is sent to a mental hospital - when he gets out, he is mistaken for a communist while waving a red flag, sent to jail, foils a jailbreak, and is let out again. we follow charlie through many more escapades before the film is out. ?colin tinto <cst@imdb.com> actor director writermusic score composed by directorfactoryjailsatire109 more plot summary add synopsis taglines he stands alone as the greatest entertainer of modern times! no one on earth can make you laugh as heartily or touch your heart as deeply...the whole world laughs, cries and thrills to his priceless genius! genres comedy drama romance certificate g parents guide did you know edit trivia (at around 1h 25 mins) discounting later parodies and novelty films, this was the last major american film to make use of silent film conventions, such as title cards for dialogue. the very last dialogue title card of this film (and thus, it can be said, the entire silent era) belongs to the tramp, who says "buck up - never say die! we'll get along." goofs after going on break, he turns both wrenches in the same direction. before that he appears to be tightening them in opposite directions. quotes a gamin: [last lines] what's the use of trying? a factory worker: buck up - never say die. we'll get along. alternate versions the said 33 seconds last minute removal is this: "after the girl takes the diamond from the fat man, she had it checked and she found out that it was a fake diamond." connections featured in por primera vez (1967) soundtracks hallelujah, i'm a bum (uncredited) music from the traditional folk song "revive us again" user reviews340 review top review 10/10 hilarious comedy with a serious message "modern times" is in my top 5 films, and #2 in my list of favorite comedies. charles chaplin is arguably the most talented human being, nevermind film maker, that ever lived. i first saw this treasure about 8 years ago, and i watched it again recently to make sure that it really was funny, and that i had not given it too much praise because it was simply a chaplin film. "modern times" passed my test with flying colors. i laughed hysterically from start to finish. each and every scene is innovative, well thought out, and executed with the genius that only chaplin possessed. among my favorite scenes are the "automatic worker-feeding machine"; the jail scene in the cafeteria when the tramp accidentally sprinkles cocaine on his food, thinking it is salt; and the roller skating scene in the department store. no special effects or computer animation, just pure, simple, genius. the storyline in "modern times" is purposefully naive, a trick chaplin used time and again to bring a profound humanitarian quality to his films. watching this film is comparable to watching a warner bros. cartoon, which coming from me is a sincere compliment. the level of physical comedy in "modern times" is on par with the masterful short films of chuck jones, friz freleng, and others. finally, as was the case with most of his later films, "modern times" is a serious social commentary. its message is as relevant today as it was more than sixty years ago when it was released. in fact, it is arguably even more relevant today, and unless the world changes drastically in the future it will continue to be. "modern times" is essentially the story of a simple but extremely kind man caught in the traps of industrialized society. the opening scene, which compares a crowd of workers boarding the subway to a flock of sheep, is chaplin's warning against standardization, mechanization, and other facets of life which rob men and women of their individuality. chaplin always tried to speak for the downtrodden, because despite his enormous success and wealth, he never forgot where he came from. in the end, "modern times" is a reminder that no matter how bad things are, you can still smile. charles chaplin has made more people smile than almost any other, and his legacy of love and laughter lives on in his films. its up to us to keep his legacy alive. helpful?118 57 chris-268 sep 10, 2000 faq2 what is the song the tramp performs about? what is a gamin? details edit release date february 25, 1936 (united states) country of origin united states official sites instagram official site language english also known as les temps modernes filming locations sierra hwy. & penman rd., santa clarita, california, usa production company charles chaplin productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $1,500,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $163,577 opening weekend us & canada $35,809 dec 28, 2003 gross worldwide $458,676 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 27 minutes color black and white sound mix silent aspect ratio 1.37 : 1 related news al jafree md yusop curates a collection of ten diverse films for mubi malaysia mar 22asianmoviepulse 32 great movies that received zero oscar nominations (photos) mar 22the wrap contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the hindi language plot outline for modern times (1936)? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
