https://www.imdb.com/poll/?ref_=nv_cm_pl::movie, tv and celebrity polls - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) imdb polls imdb has movie, tv, and celebrity polls. featured poll: 2022 oscar red carpet wardrobe ? male a poll by mariojacobs. which is your favorite outfit? (not actor/celebrity) for an uncropped view of the images see the slides here. source: imdb gallery ? 2022 academy awards: red carpet photos join the discussion here in the imdb poll community forum select from simu liu at an event for the oscars (2022), jesse plemons at an event for the oscars (2022), and 28 others. pick a poll showing 2 to 25 oscars 2022 ? films with multiple wins a poll by bonafideboss which of these films that received multiple wins at the 94th academy awards is your favorite? discuss here more: films with multiple nominations | oscars 2022 nominations | oscars 2022 polls the power of the underdog a poll by pbn coda won best picture at the oscars (2022) with only three nominations while the power of the dog (2021) had twelve nominations. which is your favorite best picture upset where films with fewer than t? the academy awards - years ending with 6 a poll by breumaster in 1929 the academy started to honor the best movies. this is an oscar view on each decade the film academy honoured the best movie from the launch of the oscars until today. (according to 2022). this? oscars 2022 ? favorite winner a poll by dibyayan_chakravorty which of the winners at the 2022 oscars were you most happy about? after voting, you may discuss the poll here. oscars 2021 << favorite winner oscars 2022 - best dressed female a poll by altntasnazmi who was the best dressed female at the oscars(2022)? discuss the poll here the academy awards - years ending with 2 a poll by breumaster in 1929 the academy started to honor the best movies. this is an oscar view on each decade the film academy honoured the best movie from the launch of the oscars until today. (according to 2022). this? best samuel l. jackson movie a poll by paok-kilkis which movie starring samuel l. jackson is your favorite? discuss the list here! pixar ? oscar nominated films a poll by mariojacobs pixar animation studios is an american computer animation studio known for its critically and commercially successful computer-animated feature films. it is a subsidiary of walt disney studios owned ? actors who have a best actor oscar and a best supporting actor oscar a poll by ethangentle which one of these actors who have a best supporting actor oscar and best actor oscar is your favorite? discuss here in the imdb community forums the academy awards - years ending with 5 a poll by breumaster in 1929 the academy started to honor the best movies. this is an oscar view on each decade the film academy honoured the best movie from the launch of the oscars until today. (according to 2022). this? little oscar a poll by kirk-picard the academy juvenile award, also known as the juvenile oscar, was a special honorary academy award bestowed at the discretion of the board of governors of the academy of motion picture arts and scienc? scary characters a poll by jafar413 which character scared you the most? discuss this poll here best "best actor" 2000-2009 a poll by ethangentle which one of these best actor winners from the years 2000-2009 is your favorite? discuss here favorite oscar best picture western nominee? a poll by urbanemovies in honor of 2022 oscar best picture nominee, the power of the dog (2021), a neo-western genre film: which of these select oscar-nominated best picture movies* in the western, the revisionist western, ? the academy awards - years ending with 4 a poll by breumaster in 1929 the academy started to honor the best movies. this is an oscar view on each decade the film academy honoured the best movie from the launch of the oscars until today. (according to 2022). this? women in green dresses a poll by paok-kilkis which of these characters in a green dress is your favorite? discuss the list here! face-off: multi-role medal of honor portrayals a poll by urbanemovies medal of honor day is an annual us federal observance that takes place on march 25. its purpose is to highlight the courage and heroism of american recipients of their country's highest personal milit? face-off: honorary oscars 2022 a poll by thenolanfan which of the four 2022 recipients of an honorary oscar award is the most deserving? discuss here best andrew garfield oscar-nominated performance a poll by bonafideboss what is your favorite andrew garfield oscar-nominated performance? discuss here face-off: batman vs. bruce wayne a poll by brijeshmarand batman, a genius, and the caped crusader or his alias bruce wayne, a billionaire, and a philanthropist. which personality of one of the most famous comic book heroes do you like the most? discuss the? the academy awards - years ending with 3 a poll by breumaster in 1929 the academy started to honor the best movies. this is an oscar view on each decade the film academy honoured the best movie from the launch of the oscars until today. (according to 2022). this? bafta games awards 2022 ? video games with multiple nominations a poll by bonafideboss which of these video games that received multiple nominations at the 18th british academy games awards is your favorite? discuss here keith's top 20 westerns a poll by mariojacobs keith simanton is the senior film and content editor of imdb, a longtime commentator on the arts, and the managing editor of imdbpro (imdb?s subscription site for professionals). his greatest accomp? oscar winning courtroom performances a poll by paok-kilkis which of these performances that won an academy award in courtroom movies do you think is the best? discuss the list here! see more imdb polls follow @imdb on twitter poll faq share this page: hotly contested polls favorite popular person in a popular film 2022 most anticipated new and returning tv shows alliterative attractive actresses 'the finals" (a.k.a. lusciously lovely leading ladies) profile posters celebrities love imdb too (part 1) weapons unleashed! clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
