https://www.imdb.com/news/movie/?ref_=nv_nw_mv::movie news - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) movie news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 by brian welk the wrap ?get out? and ?judas and the black messiah? actor daniel kaluuya has made his screenwriting debut on a futuristic, dystopian film for netflix called ?the kitchen.? the oscar winner co-wrote the film along with joe murtagh, and he?s also set to produce for his 59% productions banner. also producing is michael fassbender?s company dmc film. ?the kitchen? is set in london, 2044, a future where the gap between rich and poor has been stretched to its limits. all forms of social housing have been eradicated and london?s working classes have been forced to live in temporary accommodation on the outskirts of the city, the kitchen is the first and the largest of its kind, it?s london?s last village harboring residents that refuse to move on and move out of the place they call home. it?s here we meet izi, a resident of the kitchen who is see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 by jolie lash the wrap hbo?s ?house of the dragon? has a premiere date ? and several new images. the ?game of thrones? prequel series debuts sunday, august 21 on hbo and will stream on hbo max. the series is based on george r.r. martin?s ?fire & blood,? and set 200 years before the events of ?game of thrones.? it tells the story of house targaryen. hbo released new character descriptions on wednesday, as well: paddy considine as king viserys targaryen, chosen by the lords of westeros to succeed the old king, jaehaerys targaryen, at the great council at harrenhal. a warm, kind, and decent man, viserys only wishes to carry forward his grandfather?s legacy. but good men do not necessarily make for great kings. matt smith as prince daemon targaryen, younger brother to king viserys and heir to the throne. a peerless warrior and a dragonrider, daemon possesses the true blood of the dragon. but see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 by brent lang variety - film news fresh off its oscars triumph, apple will re-release ?coda? in movie theaters on friday. the film, which tells the story of the only hearing member of a deaf family?s relationship with her parents and brother, will screen in over 600 u.s. locations with open captions. that will make the film accessible to the deaf and hard of hearing. ?coda? became the first movie released by a streaming service to win best picture at sunday?s ceremony. director sian heder picked up a statue for best adapted screenplay, and tory kotsur won best supporting actor. ?coda? debuted at the 2021 sundance film festival and sold to apple for a record-breaking $25 million. it was released in cinemas last summer, earning a paltry $1 million. the oscar triumph was a statement-making moment for apple, which only got into the entertainment business in 2019 with the launch of its streaming service apple tv plus. ?as our see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 by ethan shanfeld variety - film news sharon stone has been tapped to play villain victoria kord in dc?s upcoming ?blue beetle,? its first superhero movie starring a latino character, variety confirms. victoria kord is a new character created for the film, which will premiere in theaters on aug. 18, 2023. raoul max trujillo (?mayans m.c.?) also joins ?blue beetle? as carapax the indestructible man. stone and trujillo star alongside xolo maridue? (?cobra kai?) as the lead role of jamie reyes, the alter ego of the blue beetle, a vigilante who has a scarab grafted onto his spine that gives him tremendous powers and the ability to emit blue energy. bruna marquezine will play penny, the female lead and love interest, while belissa escobedo and harvey guill?n will also appear in the film. escobedo will play jamie?s younger sister, milagros, while details about guillen?s role are still under wraps. angel manuel soto (?charm city kings see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 by ethan shanfeld variety - film news after her notable absence from the recent ?harry potter? reunion special, j.k. rowling attended the premiere of ?fantastic beasts: the secrets of dumbledore? on tuesday at the royal festival hall in london. when ?harry potter? stars daniel radcliffe, emma watson and rupert grint reunited earlier this year for the hbo max special ?return to hogwarts,? which celebrated the 20th anniversary of ?harry potter and the sorcerer?s stone,? rowling decided to sit out. while the author and franchise creator was invited to participate in the reunion, she declined, causing hbo max to use archival footage of rowling from 2019 instead. rowling is a co-screenwriter and producer of ?fantastic beasts: the secrets of dumbledore,? which is the third installment of the ?harry potter? spinoff franchise. the film premieres on april 15 in the united states. a polarizing figure, rowling has been outspoken on social media about her views on transgender people and opposition to see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this harry styles dropped out of robert eggers? ?nosferatu? remake with anya taylor-joy 28 march 2022 by zack sharf variety - film news harry styles was briefly attached to robert eggers? ?nosferatu? remake before he dropped out of the project due to scheduling conflicts. the new yorker first reported the casting exit. contacted by variety, a representative for styles confirmed the news. had styles not pulled out of the movie, then ?nosferatu? would have paired the grammy winner and ?dunkirk? actor with anya taylor-joy. variety first reported in 2017 that ?the witch? and ?the lighthouse? director robert eggers was planning his own ?nosferatu? movie with taylor-joy, who collaborated with eggers on their breakthrough indie ?the witch.? taylor-joy stars in eggers? upcoming viking epic ?the northman,? in theaters april 22 from focus features. production on ?the northman? got delayed by covid in 2020, which is part of the reason the director?s ?nosferatu? plans have remained open-ended. eggers confirmed earlier this year that he?s still in discussions with taylor-joy to do the movie, which will reimagine f. see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this some clever editing helped pull off point break's no parachute scene 30 march 2022 by natalia keogan slash film in 1991, filmmaker kathryn bigelow dared to ask one of cinema's most crucial questions: what's better than guys being dudes? the sprawling, manifold answer was thoroughly mapped out in "point break," a tale of surfing, crime capers, and concealed identities. perhaps most of all, bigelow's film unravels the surprising ways that an otherwise genuine human connection can disarm and delude us, presented in the central bond between undercover fbi agent johnny utah (keanu reeves in the role that would forever brand him as a "himbo") and at-large bank robber bodhi (patrick swayze). granted with a sizable hunch on behalf of the bureau, utah... the post some clever editing helped pull off point break's no parachute scene appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this ?donbass? review: sergei loznitsa?s bleak and brutal ukraine-set war comedy is eerily timed 30 march 2022 by chris barsanti the playlist nobody who knows anything about war would claim there are good or bad conflicts. still, the warfare seen in sergey loznitsa?s savage ukraine-set satire ?donbass? manages to seem even more harrowing than the fictional fighting we are used to seeing on screen. that is not because the film is gruesome in its visuals. instead, loznitsa shows us something potentially more frightening than a bloody drag-out battle between two armies: a war where one side is barely recognizable from the other, the stakes are hard to discern, and because it is not quite clear what the fighting is for, it is difficult to imagine it ending. continue reading ?donbass? review: sergei loznitsa?s bleak and brutal ukraine-set war comedy is eerily timed at the playlist. see full article at the playlist ? permalink report this oscar isaac's moon knight accent sounded terrible in the trailers ? but it's brilliant in the show 30 march 2022 by shania russell slash film when our very first glimpse at marvel's "moon knight" arrived, the question of the hour wasn't why is oscar isaac's face wrapped in toilet paper? or is it concerning that ethan hawke makes such a believable cult leader? instead, we all united around the most pressing hot button topic surrounding the show and pondered life's biggest question of all: why does oscar isaac sound like a dickensian orphan? since then, the accent chosen for isaac's marvel hero has remained a major talking point in the lead-up to the series premiere and the joking jabs have gone so far... the post oscar isaac's moon knight accent sounded terrible in the trailers - but it's brilliant in the show appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this oscar co-hosts wanda sykes & amy schumer denounce the will smith slap: ?it was sickening? 30 march 2022 by christopher marc the playlist it?s been dubbed the slap heard around the world and the fallout for actor will smith after slapping comedian chris rock for telling a joke about his wife jada pinkett smith at the oscars continues and won?t abate. given it was an unscripted moment of violence that shocked audiences and pretty much everyone in attendance at the academy award ceremony, many are aghast that after striking rock, smith returned to his seat, suffered zero consequences, and then waited patiently to win the best actor statue for his performance in ?king richard.? following smith?s apology, pinkett-smith?s call for ?healing.? and an investigation opened by the academy branch, many celebrities are weighing in, some very well connected to the story, others, not even attending that night. continue reading oscar co-hosts wanda sykes & amy schumer denounce the will smith slap: ?it was sickening? at the playlist. see full article at the playlist ? permalink report this pro wrestling feuds that are just as good as any tv show or movie 30 march 2022 by bj colangelo slash film since the dawn of time, the human race has found a number of ways to tell stories. from word of mouth around the fire to live stage productions to film and television to interactive virtual reality, there are countless ways to experience the joys of storytelling. yet one form that typically gets overlooked and often looked down on is professional wrestling. combining the live element of theater, the athleticism of sports, and the convenience of television, pro wrestling can still connect an audience with larger-than-life characters, evoke visceral emotions, and tell a wonderfully compelling story. but because it's been saddled with the... the post pro wrestling feuds that are just as good as any tv show or movie appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this ?nitram? review: justin kurzel?s sober and sickening portrait of australia?s deadliest mass shooter 30 march 2022 by david ehrlich indiewire it would be hard to overstate the fear that i felt in anticipation of watching justin kurzel?s ?nitram? (an experience that i?ve semi-deliberately avoided since its premiere at the tail end of last year?s cannes). for one thing, kurzel has a rare gift for soul-clouding dread. i was first introduced to his work through ?snowtown,? a film so all-consumingly grim that it seemed to suck the light out of the universe in real time, leaving only the projector beam as a hostage to bear witness; it?s the kind of thing that demands to be written about in the past tense, as the stuff of memory rather than something that could still be queued up on netflix, because there?s no way in hell i?m ever watching it again. a 2011 docudrama about a string of murders that plagued australia during the ?90s, ?snowtown? had a body see full article at indiewire ? permalink report this the batman is officially the biggest box office hit of the year (for now) 30 march 2022 by ryan scott slash film it didn't even take a full month, but we can now officially say that "the batman" is the biggest box office hit of the year. this is not just limited to releases in north america, mind you, as robert pattinson's first go-around as dc's most beloved superhero has topped the charts worldwide and now ranks as 2022's highest-grossing movie overall. it's a great sign for warner bros. and all but ensures this version of the franchise will continue for some time. but the question is, how long will the caped crusader hold the crown? according to box office mojo, director... the post the batman is officially the biggest box office hit of the year (for now) appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this the 15 best supernatural thrillers, ranked 30 march 2022 by r. r. fletcher slash film at its most basic, horror addresses humanity's primal anxieties, playing on phobias and insecurities such as claustrophobia or jealousy and, above all else, eliciting an all-consuming sense of dread from audiences. by contrast, supernatural thrillers focus on the unexplainable. these films are often spooky and creepy, but not always horrific. they are, however, true cinematic mainstays that appeal to broad audiences, often combining multiple genres such as crime thrillers, haunted house yarns, and stories about the psychologically disturbed to intensify viewers' primal fight or flight instincts. authentic and unnerving, many of this genre's films are considered classics, exploring unusual family dynamics, technologically-driven inter-dimensional gateways, or demonic activity. but... the post the 15 best supernatural thrillers, ranked appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this moon knight's human statue character has a comic book origin 30 march 2022 by jamie gerber slash film "moon knight" has finally entered the mcu! marc spector is one of marvel's most unique heroes and fans have waited a long time to see him given a live-action adaptation. however, "moon knight" is likely quite different from what comic readers were expecting. for one thing, the disney+ series spends the majority of its first episode with steven grant, an unassuming museum gift shop worker in london who thinks he's suffering from a strange sleep disorder. in reality, steven is being inhabited by another personality, a mysterious man named marc spector, who carries the powers of moon knight. while the little bit we see of marc is... the post moon knight's human statue character has a comic book origin appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this paul herman, ?the sopranos? and ?goodfellas? actor, dies at 76 30 march 2022 by wilson chapman variety - film news paul herman, the character actor best known for his role as club owner peter ?beansie? gaeta in ?the sopranos,? died tuesday. his ?sopranos? co-star michael imperioli confirmed the news in an instagram. he was 76. a cause of death has not been announced. ?paulie was just a great dude,? imperioli wrote in his instagram post. ?a first class storyteller and raconteur and one hell of an actor. goodfellas, once upon a time in america , the irishman and of course the sopranos are some highlights. paulie lived around the corner from me the last few years and i am glad we got to spend some time together before he left us. i?ll miss him. lots of love to his family, friends and our community of actors and filmmakers.? herman?s first film credit was in ?dear mr. wonderful,? a 1982 comedy film starring joe pesci. over the next two decades, he would see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this ralph fiennes paid a big price while preparing for his schindler's list role 30 march 2022 by travis yates slash film when it comes to preparing for roles, actors have historically gone to extreme lengths. commonly called "the method," actors often find themselves diving so deep into a role that it comes at a physical or emotional cost. brad pitt chipped his front teeth for his role in "fight club," robert pattinson channeled his inner-chiropterologist (that's someone who studies bats) to become batman, and isabelle fuhrman trained until her hands bled for the role of alex in "the novice." some actors say the process changes them forever. but where does one begin to prepare to play the leader of a nazi concentration... the post ralph fiennes paid a big price while preparing for his schindler's list role appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this what to expect from ?bridgerton? season 3 after that bombshell finale 30 march 2022 by samantha bergeson indiewire well, another bridgerton sibling has found their happily ever after. but where does that leave the rest of the regency-era family? following the jaw-dropping season 2 ?bridgerton? finale, we can?t help but wonder which sibling will feel the sting (see what we did there?) of love come season 3. [editor?s note: a spoiler alert, of sorts. the below recaps the book ?an offer from a gentleman,? which will reportedly be the inspiration for season 3.] 1. where did season 2 leave off? the eight-episode second season concluded with anthony bridgerton (jonathan bailey) reveling in bliss with kate (simone ashley). yet things proved to be a little more dramatic for his sister, eloise (claudia jessie), who finally figured out that her best friend penelope featherington (nicola coughlan) is behind the salacious lady whistledown gossip rag. eloise?s secret friendship with printer assistant theo (calam lynch) was also shattered, and while we?ll have to wait until the fifth season ? per the order of julia quinn?s novels on which the shonda rhimes-produced series is based ? to see eloise find love, see full article at indiewire ? permalink report this minions: the rise of gru trailer: despicable me returns in prequel form 30 march 2022 by ryan scott slash film you can only keep a cash cow franchise away for so long, and today brings us a brand new trailer for "minions: the rise of gru." though technically more of a sequel to 2015's "minions," this is really a return of the "despicable me" franchise by way of a prequel showing us, as the title implies, the rise to power of gru, voiced by steve carell. it's kind of the best of both worlds, as we get the character that made this series what it is, as well as some minions branding in there. let's see how it looks, shall we? more... the post minions: the rise of gru trailer: despicable me returns in prequel form appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this the reason denis villeneuve didn't direct sicario: day of the soldado 30 march 2022 by anthony crislip slash film denis villeneuve's 2015 film "sicario" took a familiar take on the complexities of the border war and turned it into a nuanced thriller. villeneuve brought to the story his typical technical precision and intuitive staging, the same qualities that made him capable of crafting a sensational adaptation of "dune." with the story of fbi agent kate mercer (emily blunt), a moral person navigating the modern world of u.s. and mexican cartel warfare, villeneuve was given the chance to make an action movie on his own terms. in a way, an action movie was a test of villeneuve's sensibilities, a test of whether or... the post the reason denis villeneuve didn't direct sicario: day of the soldado appeared first on /film. see full article at slash film ? permalink report this an error has occured. please try again. load more imdb.com, inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, tweets, or blog posts. this content is published for the entertainment of our users only. the news articles, tweets, and blog posts do not represent imdb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy. top news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 variety - film news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news see all top news ? tv news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news ?it? prequel series in the works at hbo max 29 march 2022 variety - tv news will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 variety - tv news see all tv news ? celebrity news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 variety - tv news j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 variety - film news jada pinkett smith calls for ?healing? after will smith slaps chris rock at the oscars 29 march 2022 variety - film news see all celebrity news ? indie news ?donbass? review: sergei loznitsa?s bleak and brutal ukraine-set war comedy is eerily timed 30 march 2022 the playlist oscar co-hosts wanda sykes & amy schumer denounce the will smith slap: ?it was sickening? 30 march 2022 the playlist ?nitram? review: justin kurzel?s sober and sickening portrait of australia?s deadliest mass shooter 30 march 2022 indiewire what to expect from ?bridgerton? season 3 after that bombshell finale 30 march 2022 indiewire netflix reboots ?spy kids? with robert rodriguez returning to helm the franchise 30 march 2022 indiewire see all indie news ? clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
