https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multilingualism::multilingualism - wikipedia multilingualism from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search use of multiple languages "bilingual" redirects here. for other uses, see bilingual (disambiguation). "trilingual" redirects here. for the alleged early medieval heresy, see trilingual heresy. "polyglot" redirects here. for a computer program, see polyglot (computing). multilingual sign outside the mayor's office in novi sad, serbia, written in the four official languages of the city: serbian, hungarian, slovak, and pannonian rusyn. a trash can in seattle labeled in four languages: english, chinese, vietnamese, and spanish (tagalog also uses the spanish word). a stenciled danger sign in singapore written in english, chinese, tamil, and malay (the four official languages of singapore). the logo of the swiss federal administration, in the four national languages of switzerland (german, french, italian, and romansh). multilingualism is the use of more than one language, either by an individual speaker or by a group of speakers. it is believed that multilingual speakers outnumber monolingual speakers in the world's population.[1][2] more than half of all europeans claim to speak at least one language other than their mother tongue;[3] but many read and write in one language. always useful to traders, multilingualism is advantageous for people wanting to participate in globalization and cultural openness.[4] owing to the ease of access to information facilitated by the internet, individuals' exposure to multiple languages is becoming increasingly possible. people who speak several languages are also called polyglots.[5] multilingual speakers have acquired and maintained at least one language during childhood, the so-called first language (l1). the first language (sometimes also referred to as the mother tongue) is usually acquired without formal education, by mechanisms about which scholars disagree.[6] children acquiring two languages natively from these early years are called simultaneous bilinguals. it is common for young simultaneous bilinguals to be more proficient in one language than the other.[7] people who speak more than one language have been reported to be more adept at language learning compared to monolinguals.[8] multilingualism in computing can be considered part of a continuum between internationalization and localization. due to the status of english in computing, software development nearly always uses it (but not in the case of non-english-based programming languages). some commercial software is initially available in an english version, and multilingual versions, if any, may be produced as alternative options based on the english original. contents 1 history 2 definition 3 acquisition 3.1 receptive bilingualism 3.2 order of acquisition 3.2.1 outcomes 4 in individuals 4.1 cognitive ability 4.2 economic benefits 4.3 psychology 4.4 personality 4.5 hyperpolyglots 4.6 terms 5 neuroscience 6 myths 6.1 myth: bi- or multilinguals are exceptions to the "default" monolingual "norm" 6.2 myth: in order to deserve the label "bi-/multilingual", one needs to have an equal, "perfect", "native-like" command of both/all of their languages 6.3 myth: childhood bilingualism may be detrimental to both linguistic and cognitive development and consequently lead to poorer results at school. 6.4 myth: adults are unable to successfully build proficiency in a language the way a young child can. 7 in communities 8 interaction between speakers of different languages 9 computing 9.1 internet 10 english-speaking countries 11 asia 12 africa 13 europe 14 music 15 literature 15.1 fiction 15.2 poetry 16 film 17 see also 17.1 policies and proposals 17.2 education 17.3 other 18 notes 19 references 20 further reading 21 external links history[edit] the first recorded use of the word multilingualism originated in the english language in the 1800s as a combination of multi (many) and lingual (pertaining to languages, with the word existing in the middle ages). the phenomenon however, is old as different languages themselves. together, like many different languages, modern-day multilingualism is still encountered by some people who speak the same language. bilingual signs represent a multitude of languages in a evolutive variety of texts with each writing. definition[edit] bilingual no trespassing sign at a construction site in helsinki; upper text in finnish and lower text in swedish. the definition of multilingualism is a subject of debate in the same way as that of language fluency. at one end of a sort of linguistic continuum, one may define multilingualism as complete competence in and mastery of more than one language. the speaker would presumably have complete knowledge and control over the languages and thus sound like a native speaker. at the opposite end of the spectrum would be people who know enough phrases to get around as a tourist using the alternate language. since 1992, vivian cook has argued that most multilingual speakers fall somewhere between minimal and maximal definitions. cook calls these people multi-competent.[9][10] in addition, there is no consistent definition of what constitutes a distinct language.[11] for instance, scholars often disagree whether scots is a language in its own right or merely a dialect of english.[12] furthermore, what is considered a language can change, often for purely political reasons. one example is the creation of serbo-croatian as a standard language on the basis of the eastern herzegovinian dialect to function as umbrella for numerous south slavic dialects; after the breakup of yugoslavia it was split into serbian, croatian, bosnian and montenegrin. another example is that ukrainian was dismissed as a russian dialect by the russian tsars to discourage national feelings.[13] many small independent nations' schoolchildren are today compelled to learn multiple languages because of international interactions.[14] for example, in finland, all children are required to learn at least three languages: the two national languages (finnish and swedish) and one foreign language (usually english). many finnish schoolchildren also study further languages, such as german or russian.[15] in some large nations with multiple languages, such as india, schoolchildren may routinely learn multiple languages based on where they reside in the country. in many countries, bilingualism occurs through international relations, which, with english being the global lingua franca, sometimes results in majority bilingualism even when the countries have just one domestic official language. this is occurring especially in germanic regions such as scandinavia, the benelux and among germanophones, but it is also expanding into some non-germanic countries.[16] acquisition[edit] main articles: language acquisition, language education, second-language acquisition, and simultaneous bilingualism ? bilingual_acquisition one view is that of the linguist noam chomsky in what he calls the human language acquisition device?a mechanism which enables a learner to recreate correctly the rules and certain other characteristics of language used by surrounding speakers.[17] this device, according to chomsky, wears out over time, and is not normally available by puberty, which he uses to explain the poor results some adolescents and adults have when learning aspects of a second language (l2). if language learning is a cognitive process, rather than a language acquisition device, as the school led by stephen krashen suggests, there would only be relative, not categorical, differences between the two types of language learning. rod ellis quotes research finding that the earlier children learn a second language, the better off they are, in terms of pronunciation.[1] european schools generally offer secondary language classes for their students early on, due to the interconnectedness with neighbor countries with different languages. most european students now study at least two foreign languages, a process strongly encouraged by the european union.[18] based on the research in ann fathman's the relationship between age and second language productive ability,[19][20] there is a difference in the rate of learning of english morphology, syntax and phonology based upon differences in age, but that the order of acquisition in second language learning does not change with age. in second language class, students will commonly face difficulties in thinking in the target language because they are influenced by their native language and culture patterns. robert b. kaplan thinks that in second language classes, the foreign-student paper is out of focus because the foreign student is employing rhetoric and a sequence of thought which violate the expectations of the native reader.[21] foreign students who have mastered syntactic structures have still demonstrated an inability to compose adequate themes, term papers, theses, and dissertations. robert b. kaplan describes two key words that affect people when they learn a second language. logic in the popular, rather than the logician's sense of the word, is the basis of rhetoric, evolved out of a culture; it is not universal. rhetoric, then, is not universal either, but varies from culture to culture and even from time to time within a given culture.[21] language teachers know how to predict the differences between pronunciations or constructions in different languages, but they might be less clear about the differences between rhetoric, that is, in the way they use language to accomplish various purposes, particularly in writing.[22] people who learn multiple languages may also experience positive transfer ? the process by which it becomes easier to learn additional languages if the grammar or vocabulary of the new language is similar to those of the languages already spoken. on the other hand, students may also experience negative transfer ? interference from languages learned at an earlier stage of development while learning a new language later in life.[23] receptive bilingualism[edit] main article: passive speakers (language) receptive bilinguals are those who can understand a second language but who cannot speak it or whose abilities to speak it are inhibited by psychological barriers. receptive bilingualism is frequently encountered among adult immigrants to the u.s. who do not speak english as a native language but who have children who do speak english natively, usually in part because those children's education has been conducted in english; while the immigrant parents can understand both their native language and english, they speak only their native language to their children. if their children are likewise receptively bilingual but productively english-monolingual, throughout the conversation the parents will speak their native language and the children will speak english. if their children are productively bilingual, however, those children may answer in the parents' native language, in english, or in a combination of both languages, varying their choice of language depending on factors such as the communication's content, context, and/or emotional intensity and the presence or absence of third-party speakers of one language or the other. the third alternative represents the phenomenon of "code-switching" in which the productively bilingual party to a communication switches languages in the course of that communication. receptively bilingual persons, especially children, may rapidly achieve oral fluency by spending extended time in situations where they are required to speak the language that they theretofore understood only passively. until both generations achieve oral fluency, not all definitions of bilingualism accurately characterize the family as a whole, but the linguistic differences between the family's generations often constitute little or no impairment to the family's functionality.[24] receptive bilingualism in one language as exhibited by a speaker of another language, or even as exhibited by most speakers of that language, is not the same as mutual intelligibility of languages; the latter is a property of a pair of languages, namely a consequence of objectively high lexical and grammatical similarities between the languages themselves (e.g., norwegian and swedish), whereas the former is a property of one or more persons and is determined by subjective or intersubjective factors such as the respective languages' prevalence in the life history (including family upbringing, educational setting, and ambient culture) of the person or persons.[25] order of acquisition[edit] in sequential bilingualism, learners receive literacy instruction in their native language until they acquire a "threshold" literacy proficiency. some researchers use age three as the age when a child has basic communicative competence in their first language (kessler, 1984).[26] children may go through a process of sequential acquisition if they migrate at a young age to a country where a different language is spoken, or if the child exclusively speaks his or her heritage language at home until he/she is immersed in a school setting where instruction is offered in a different language. in simultaneous bilingualism, the native language and the community language are simultaneously taught. the advantage is literacy in two languages as the outcome. however, the teacher must be well-versed in both languages and also in techniques for teaching a second language. the phases children go through during sequential acquisition are less linear than for simultaneous acquisition and can vary greatly among children. sequential acquisition is a more complex and lengthier process, although there is no indication that non-language-delayed children end up less proficient than simultaneous bilinguals, so long as they receive adequate input in both languages.[27] a coordinate model posits that equal time should be spent in separate instruction of the native language and the community language. the native language class, however, focuses on basic literacy while the community language class focuses on listening and speaking skills. being bilingual does not necessarily mean that one can speak, for example, english and french. outcomes[edit] research has found that the development of competence in the native language serves as a foundation of proficiency that can be transposed to the second language ? the common underlying proficiency hypothesis.[28][29] cummins' work sought to overcome the perception propagated in the 1960s that learning two languages made for two competing aims. the belief was that the two languages were mutually exclusive and that learning a second required unlearning elements and dynamics of the first to accommodate the second.[30] the evidence for this perspective relied on the fact that some errors in acquiring the second language were related to the rules of the first language.[30] another new development that has influenced the linguistic argument for bilingual literacy is the length of time necessary to acquire the second language. while previously children were believed to have the ability to learn a language within a year, today researchers believe that within and across academic settings, the period is nearer to five years.[31][32] an interesting outcome of studies during the early 1990s, however, confirmed that students who do complete bilingual instruction perform better academically.[31][32] these students exhibit more cognitive elasticity including a better ability to analyze abstract visual patterns. students who receive bidirectional bilingual instruction where equal proficiency in both languages is required perform at an even higher level. examples of such programs include international and multi-national education schools. in individuals[edit] "polyglot" redirects here. for other uses, see polyglot (disambiguation). a multilingual person is someone who can communicate in more than one language actively (through speaking, writing, or signing). multilingual people can speak any language they write in, but cannot necessarily write in any language they speak. more specifically, bilingual and trilingual people are those in comparable situations involving two or three languages, respectively. a multilingual person is generally referred to as a polyglot, a term that may also refer to people who learn multiple languages as a hobby.[33][34] multilingual speakers have acquired and maintained at least one language during childhood, the so-called first language (l1). the first language (sometimes also referred to as the mother tongue) is acquired without formal education, by mechanisms heavily disputed. children acquiring two languages in this way are called simultaneous bilinguals. even in the case of simultaneous bilinguals, one language usually dominates over the other.[35] in linguistics, first language acquisition is closely related to the concept of a "native speaker". according to a view widely held by linguists, a native speaker of a given language has in some respects a level of skill which a second (or subsequent) language learner cannot easily accomplish. consequently, descriptive empirical studies of languages are usually carried out using only native speakers. this view is, however, slightly problematic, particularly as many non-native speakers demonstrably not only successfully engage with and in their non-native language societies, but in fact may become culturally and even linguistically important contributors (as, for example, writers, politicians, media personalities and performing artists) in their non-native language. in recent years, linguistic research has focused attention on the use of widely known world languages, such as english, as a lingua franca or a shared common language of professional and commercial communities. in lingua franca situations, most speakers of the common language are functionally multilingual. the reverse phenomenon, where people who know more than one language end up losing command of some or all of their additional languages, is called language attrition. it has been documented that, under certain conditions, individuals may lose their l1 language proficiency completely, after switching to the exclusive use of another language, and effectively "become native" in a language that was once secondary after the l1 undergoes total attrition. this is most commonly seen among immigrant communities and has been the subject of substantial academic study. the most important factor in spontaneous, total l1 loss appears to be age; in the absence of neurological dysfunction or injury, only young children typically are at risk of forgetting their native language and switching to a new one.[36] once they pass an age that seems to correlate closely with the critical period, around the age of 12, total loss of a native language is not typical, although it is still possible for speakers to experience diminished expressive capacity if the language is never practiced.[37] cognitive ability[edit] main article: cognitive effects of multilingualism people who use more than one language have been reported to be more adept at language learning compared to monolinguals.[8] individuals who are highly proficient in two or more languages have been reported to have enhanced executive function or even have reduced-risk for dementia.[38][39][40][41][42] more recently, however, this claim has come under strong criticism[43][44] with repeated failures to replicate.[45][46] one possible reason for this discrepancy is that bilingualism is rich and diverse; bilingualism can take different forms according to the context and geographic location in which it is studied.[47] yet, many prior studies do not reliably quantify samples of bilinguals under investigation.[48] an emerging perspective is that studies on bilingual and multilingual cognitive abilities need to account for validated and granular quantifications of language experience in order to identify boundary conditions of possible cognitive effects.[49][50][51][52] economic benefits[edit] bilinguals might have important labor market advantages over monolingual individuals as bilingual people can carry out duties that monolinguals cannot,[53] such as interacting with customers who only speak a minority language. a study in switzerland has found that multilingualism is positively correlated with an individual's salary, the productivity of firms, and the gross domestic production (gdp); the authors state that switzerland's gdp is augmented by 10% by multilingualism.[54] a study in the united states by agirdag found that bilingualism has substantial economic benefits as bilingual persons were found to have around $3,000 per year more salary than monolinguals.[55] psychology[edit] a study in 2012 has shown that using a foreign language reduces decision-making biases. it was surmised that the framing effect disappeared when choices are presented in a second language. as human reasoning is shaped by two distinct modes of thought: one that is systematic, analytical and cognition-intensive, and another that is fast, unconscious and emotionally charged, it was believed that a second language provides a useful cognitive distance from automatic processes, promoting analytical thought and reducing unthinking, emotional reaction. therefore, those who speak two languages have better critical thinking and decision making skills.[56] a study published a year later found that switching into a second language seems to exempt bilinguals from the social norms and constraints such as political correctness.[57] in 2014, another study has shown that people using a foreign language are more likely to make utilitarian decisions when faced with a moral dilemma, as in the trolley problem. the utilitarian option was chosen more often in the fat man case when presented in a foreign language. however, there was no difference in the switch track case. it was surmised that a foreign language lacks the emotional impact of one's native language.[58] personality[edit] because it is difficult or impossible to master many of the high-level semantic aspects of a language (including but not limited to its idioms and eponyms) without first understanding the culture and history of the region in which that language evolved, as a practical matter an in-depth familiarity with multiple cultures is a prerequisite for high-level multilingualism. this knowledge of cultures individually and comparatively, or indeed the mere fact of one's having that knowledge, often forms an important part of both what one considers one's identity to be and what others consider that identity to be.[35][59] some studies have found that groups of multilingual individuals get higher average scores on tests for certain personality traits such as cultural empathy, open-mindedness and social initiative.[60][61] the idea of linguistic relativity, which claims that the language people speak influences the way they see the world, can be interpreted to mean that individuals who speak multiple languages have a broader, more diverse view of the world, even when speaking only one language at a time.[62] some bilinguals feel that their personality changes depending on which language they are speaking;[63][64] thus multilingualism is said to create multiple personalities. xiao-lei wang states in her book growing up with three languages: birth to eleven: "languages used by speakers with one or more than one language are used not just to represent a unitary self, but to enact different kinds of selves, and different linguistic contexts create different kinds of self-expression and experiences for the same person." however, there has been little rigorous research done on this topic and it is difficult to define "personality" in this context. fran?ois grosjean wrote: "what is seen as a change in personality is most probably simply a shift in attitudes and behaviors that correspond to a shift in situation or context, independent of language."[65] however, the sapir-whorf hypothesis, which states that a language shapes our vision of the world, may suggest that a language learned by a grown-up may have much fewer emotional connotations and therefore allow a more serene discussion than a language learned by a child and to that respect more or less bound to a child's perception of the world. a 2013 study found that rather than an emotion-based explanation, switching into the second language seems to exempt bilinguals from the social norms and constraints such as political correctness.[57] hyperpolyglots[edit] main article: list of polyglots while many polyglots know up to six languages, the number drops off sharply past this point.[66][34] people who speak many more than this?michael erard suggests eleven or more?are sometimes classed as hyperpolyglots.[67][68] giuseppe caspar mezzofanti, for example, was an italian priest reputed to have spoken anywhere from 30 to 72 languages.[34][68] the causes of advanced language aptitude are still under research; one theory suggests that a spike in a baby's testosterone levels while in the uterus can increase brain asymmetry, which may relate to music and language ability, among other effects.[69] while the term "savant" generally refers to an individual with a natural and/or innate talent for a particular field, people diagnosed with savant syndrome are typically individuals with significant mental disabilities who demonstrate profound and prodigious capacities and/or abilities far in excess of what would be considered normal,[70][71] occasionally including the capacity for languages. the condition is associated with an increased memory capacity, which would aid in the storage and retrieval of knowledge of a language.[72] in 1991, for example, neil smith and ianthi-maria tsimpli described christopher, a man with non-verbal iq scores between 40 and 70, who learned sixteen languages. christopher was born in 1962 and approximately six months after his birth was diagnosed with brain damage.[73] despite being institutionalized because he was unable to take care of himself, christopher had a verbal iq of 89, was able to speak english with no impairment, and could learn subsequent languages with apparent ease. this facility with language and communication is considered unusual among savants.[74] terms[edit] monolingual, monoglot - 1 language spoken bilingual, diglot - 2 languages spoken trilingual, triglot - 3 languages spoken quadrilingual, tetraglot - 4 languages spoken quinquelingual, pentaglot - 5 languages spoken sexalingual, hexaglot - 6 languages spoken septilingual or septalingual, heptaglot - 7 languages spoken octolingual or octalingual, octoglot - 8 languages spoken novelingual or nonalingual, enneaglot - 9 languages spoken decalingual, decaglot - 10 languages spoken undecalingual, hendecaglot - 11 languages spoken duodecalingual, dodecaglot - 12 languages spoken it is important to note that terms past trilingual are rarely used. people who speak four or more languages are generally just referred to as multilingual. neuroscience[edit] main article: neuroscience of multilingualism myths[edit] many myths and much prejudice have grown around bilingual and multilingual people. researchers from the uk and poland have listed the most entrenched misconceptions:[10] that to deserve the label 'bi-/multilingual', one needs to have an equal, 'perfect', 'nativelike' command of both/all of one's languages; that childhood bilingualism may be detrimental to both linguistic and cognitive development and consequently lead to poorer results at school; that exposing a child to more than one language may cause language impairment or deficits, or that for children already diagnosed with impairments two languages mean too much unnecessary pressure and effort; that children do not have enough time to learn both languages, therefore it is better if they only acquire the majority language; that bilingual individuals tend to have slightly smaller vocabularies and are weaker in "verbal fluency tasks" than monolingual individuals. these are all harmful convictions that have long been debunked,[10] yet persist among many parents. in reality, bilingual children have lower scores than their monolingual peers when they are assessed in only one of the languages they are acquiring, but have substantially greater total lingual resources.[75] myth: bi- or multilinguals are exceptions to the "default" monolingual "norm"[edit] bilingual or multilingual people actually outnumber monolinguals globally, with approximately 43% of the world's population identifying as monolingual, and 57% of the world's population identifying as bilingual or multilingual.[76] myth: in order to deserve the label "bi-/multilingual", one needs to have an equal, "perfect", "native-like" command of both/all of their languages[edit] there is often an assumption only "balanced bilinguals" with "native-like" proficiency or "perfect proficiency in both or all of their languages" are considered a bilingual or multilingual.[77] instead, it is perhaps more accurate to define a bilingual or multilingual as a person who uses two or more languages (or dialects) in their everyday life.[77] in reality, balanced bilinguals are rare, and balanced bilingualism is an idealized concept that does not accurately reflect how most bilinguals or multilinguals use their four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) as they move through their lives.[77] instead, most bilinguals and multilinguals have varying proficiencies in the four language skills depending on the language they are speaking.[77] myth: childhood bilingualism may be detrimental to both linguistic and cognitive development and consequently lead to poorer results at school.[edit] bilingual storytime at a library the number of children learning a language other than english or who speak a language other than english at home has been steadily increasing since the early 2000s in the united states, due to shifts in population demographics.[78] assessments given to these children during their studies appear to show these students score lower than their english speaking monolingual peers.[78] however, these assessments are usually english-only and do not consider skills in languages other than english or any cultural skills a student may have from their first language.[78] in fact, these tests only measure english proficiency.[78] these assessments create the illusion bilingual students are performing poorly compared to their monolingual peers. similar patterns can be seen in other countries using monolingual assessments to gauge bilingual or multilingual students' learning.[78] additionally, many immigrant and new american families in the us struggle with poverty, and the effects of these different pressures on students and their families are frequently not considered.[78] however, current studies suggest children are capable to acquiring multiple languages in their first years of life, and benefit from the extra challenge.[78] exposure to multiple languages as a young age changes the way a child's brain organizes language, developing two connected language systems they can access in different situations.[78] developing proficiency in two or more languages also benefits other aspects of executive function such as memory and attention.[78] myth: adults are unable to successfully build proficiency in a language the way a young child can.[edit] adults may be hesitant to pick up a language due to the misconception that after an adult has passed the "critical period" in their cognitive development they cannot acquire a language as successfully as a young child. however, current studies call into question the validity of the critical theory, and point out it has ignored adults and older adults out of consideration.[79] learning a second or third language can have great benefits for adults, including expanding cultural literacy and slowing cognitive decline due to diseases such as dementia later in life.[79] adults may face challenges, such as finding the time to do language studies while balancing other responsibilities. some studies do suggest adults may need more time with the content to acquire the language. however, these studies fail to account for differences between adult learners and young children. children frequently engage with a second language in a classroom environment with scaffolding, structure, and lesson plans built to help boost their language skills.[79] in contrast, adults usually do not have access to the same structures or the ability to spend the same amount of time in a classroom.[79] adults, especially older adults, may also report they have trouble developing listening skills in another language.[79] however, for all these challenges adults also have several advantages over young children when it comes to language acquisition. adults know more study skills than a young learner, and can pay closer attention to content than a young learner.[79] studies have shown the brain maintains plasticity throughout one's lifespan, so a healthy adult can acquire a language at any age.[79] in communities[edit] further information: list of multilingual countries and regions croatian-italian bilingual plate on a public building in pula/pola (istria) a bilingual sign in brussels, the capital of belgium. in brussels, both dutch and french are official languages. a multilingual sign at the hong kong-macau ferry pier in macau. at the top are portuguese and chinese, which are the official languages of macau, while at the bottom are japanese and english, which are common languages used by tourists (english is also one of hong kong's two official languages). a caution message in english, kannada and hindi found in bangalore, india the three-language (tamil, english and hindi) name board at the tirusulam suburban railway station in chennai (madras). almost all railway stations in india have signs like these in three or more languages (english, hindi and the local language). multilingual sign at vancouver international airport, international arrivals area. text in english, french, and chinese is a permanent feature of this sign, while the right panel of the sign is a video screen that rotates through additional languages. multilingual sign at an exit of sm mall of asia in pasay, philippines. three or four languages are shown: japanese/mandarin chinese ("deguchi" or "ch?k?u", respectively), english ("exit") and korean ("chulgu"). while filipinos themselves are anglophone, such signs cater to the growing number of koreans and other foreigners in the country. multilingual message at a comfort room in puerto princesa, palawan, the philippines that prohibits foot washing. text is written in six languages: english, filipino, cebuano, chinese, korean, and russian respectively. a train name found in south india written in four languages: kannada, hindi, tamil, and english. boards like this are common on trains which pass through two or more states where the languages are spoken are different. a trilingual (arabic, english and urdu) sign in the uae in the three widely spoken languages in the uae a multilingual (hebrew, arabic, english, and russian) sign at the israel ministry of the interior/ministry of immigrant absorption in haifa widespread multilingualism is one form of language contact. multilingualism was common in the past: in early times, when most people were members of small language communities, it was necessary to know two or more languages for trade or any other dealings outside one's town or village, and this holds good today in places of high linguistic diversity such as sub-saharan africa and india. linguist ekkehard wolff estimates that 50% of the population of africa is multilingual.[80] in multilingual societies, not all speakers need to be multilingual. some states can have multilingual policies and recognize several official languages, such as canada (english and french). in some states, particular languages may be associated with particular regions in the state (e.g., canada) or with particular ethnicities (e.g., malaysia and singapore). when all speakers are multilingual, linguists classify the community according to the functional distribution of the languages involved: diglossia: if there is a structural-functional distribution of the languages involved, the society is termed 'diglossic'. typical diglossic areas are those areas in europe where a regional language is used in informal, usually oral, contexts, while the state language is used in more formal situations. frisia (with frisian and german or dutch) and lusatia (with sorbian and german) are well-known examples. some writers limit diglossia to situations where the languages are closely related and could be considered dialects of each other. this can also be observed in scotland where, in formal situations, english is used. however, in informal situations in many areas, scots is the preferred language of choice. a similar phenomenon is also observed in arabic-speaking regions. the effects of diglossia could be seen in the difference between written arabic (modern standard arabic) and colloquial arabic. however, as time goes, the arabic language somewhere between the two has been created what some have deemed "middle arabic" or "common arabic". because of this diversification of the language, the concept of spectroglossia[81] has been suggested. ambilingualism: a region is called ambilingual if this functional distribution is not observed. in a typical ambilingual area it is nearly impossible to predict which language will be used in a given setting. true ambilingualism is rare. ambilingual tendencies can be found in small states with multiple heritages like luxembourg, which has a combined franco-germanic heritage, or malaysia and singapore, which fuses the cultures of malays, china, and india or communities with high rates of deafness like martha's vineyard where historically most inhabitants spoke both mvsl and english or in southern israel where locals speak both al-sayyid bedouin sign language and either arabic or hebrew. ambilingualism also can manifest in specific regions of larger states that have both a dominant state language (be it de jure or de facto) and a protected minority language that is limited in terms of the distribution of speakers within the country. this tendency is especially pronounced when, even though the local language is widely spoken, there is a reasonable assumption that all citizens speak the predominant state tongue (e.g., english in quebec vs. canada; spanish in catalonia vs. spain). this phenomenon can also occur in border regions with many cross-border contacts. bipart-lingualism: if more than one language can be heard in a small area, but the large majority of speakers are monolinguals, who have little contact with speakers from neighboring ethnic groups, an area is called 'bipart-lingual'. an example of this is the balkans. n.b. the terms given above all refer to situations describing only two languages. in cases of an unspecified number of languages, the terms polyglossia, omnilingualism, and multipart-lingualism are more appropriate. interaction between speakers of different languages[edit] whenever two people meet, negotiations take place. if they want to express solidarity and sympathy, they tend to seek common features in their behavior. if speakers wish to express distance towards or even dislike of the person they are speaking to, the reverse is true, and differences are sought. this mechanism also extends to language, as described in the communication accommodation theory. some multilinguals use code-switching, which involves swapping between languages. in many cases, code-switching is motivated by the wish to express loyalty to more than one cultural group,[citation needed] as holds for many immigrant communities in the new world. code-switching may also function as a strategy where proficiency is lacking. such strategies are common if the vocabulary of one of the languages is not very elaborated for certain fields, or if the speakers have not developed proficiency in certain lexical domains, as in the case of immigrant languages. this code-switching appears in many forms. if a speaker has a positive attitude towards both languages and towards code-switching, many switches can be found, even within the same sentence.[82] if however, the speaker is reluctant to use code-switching, as in the case of a lack of proficiency, he might knowingly or unknowingly try to camouflage his attempt by converting elements of one language into elements of the other language through calquing. this results in speakers using words like courrier noir (literally mail that is black) in french, instead of the proper word for blackmail, chantage. sometimes a pidgin language may develop. a pidgin language is a fusion of two languages that is mutually understandable for both speakers. some pidgin languages develop into real languages (such as papiamento in cura?ao or singlish in singapore) while others remain as slangs or jargons (such as helsinki slang, which is more or less mutually intelligible both in finnish and swedish).[clarification needed] in other cases, prolonged influence of languages on each other may have the effect of changing one or both to the point where it may be considered that a new language is born. for example, many linguists believe that the occitan language and the catalan language were formed because of a population speaking a single occitano-romance language was divided into political spheres of influence of france and spain, respectively. yiddish is a complex blend of middle high german with hebrew and borrowings from slavic languages. bilingual interaction can even take place without the speaker switching. in certain areas, it is not uncommon for speakers to use a different language within the same conversation. this phenomenon is found, amongst other places, in scandinavia. most speakers of swedish, norwegian and danish can communicate with each other speaking their respective languages, while few can speak both (people used to these situations often adjust their language, avoiding words that are not found in the other language or that can be misunderstood). using different languages is usually called non-convergent discourse, a term introduced by the dutch linguist reitze jonkman.[citation needed] to a certain extent, this situation also exists between dutch and afrikaans, although everyday contact is fairly rare because of the distance between the two respective communities. another example is the former state of czechoslovakia, where two closely related and mutually intelligible languages (czech and slovak) were in common use. most czechs and slovaks understand both languages, although they would use only one of them (their respective mother tongue) when speaking. for example, in czechoslovakia, it was common to hear two people talking on television each speaking a different language without any difficulty understanding each other. this bilinguality still exists nowadays, although it has started to deteriorate after czechoslovakia split up.[83] japanese, english, and russian sign in northern japan mongolian, chagatai, chinese, tibetan and manchu languages sign in chengde, china a sign at the israeli ministry of the interior and ministry of immigrant absorption uses hebrew, arabic, english, and russian a multilingual sign in singapore's four official languages: english, chinese, tamil and malay urdu, hindi, and english on a road sign in india computing[edit] dual language hebrew and english keyboard with emerging markets and expanding international cooperation, business users expect to be able to use software and applications in their own language.[84] multilingualisation (or "m17n", where "17" stands for 17 omitted letters) of computer systems can be considered part of a continuum between internationalization and localization: a localized system has been adapted or converted for a particular locale (other than the one it was originally developed for), including the language of the user interface, input, and display, and features such as time/date display and currency; but each instance of the system only supports a single locale. multilingualised software supports multiple languages for display and input simultaneously, but generally has a single user interface language. support for other locale features like time, date, number and currency formats may vary as the system tends towards full internationalization. generally, a multilingual system is intended for use in a specific locale, whilst allowing for multilingual content. an internationalized system is equipped for use in a range of locales, allowing for the co-existence of several languages and character sets in user interfaces and displays. in particular, a system may not be considered internationalized in the fullest sense unless the interface language is selectable by the user at runtime. translating the user interface is usually part of the software localization process, which also includes adaptations such as units and date conversion. many software applications are available in several languages, ranging from a handful (the most spoken languages) to dozens for the most popular applications (such as office suites, web browsers, etc.). due to the status of english in computing, software development nearly always uses it (but see also non-english-based programming languages), so almost all commercial software is initially available in an english version, and multilingual versions, if any, may be produced as alternative options based on the english original. the multilingual app toolkit (mat)[85] was first released in concert with the release of windows 8 as a way to provide developers a set of free tooling that enabled adding languages to their apps with just a few clicks, in large part due to the integration of a free, unlimited license to both the microsoft translator machine translation service and the microsoft language platform service, along with platform extensibility to enable anyone to add translation services into mat. microsoft engineers and inventors of mat, jan a. nelson, and camerum lerum have continued to drive development of the tools, working with third parties and standards bodies to assure broad availability of multilingual app development is provided.[86] with the release of windows 10, mat is now delivering support for cross-platform development for windows universal apps as well as ios and android. internet[edit] main article: languages used on the internet english-speaking countries[edit] according to hewitt (2008) entrepreneurs in london from poland, china or turkey use english mainly for communication with customers, suppliers, and banks, but their native languages for work tasks and social purposes. even in english-speaking countries immigrants are still able to use their mother tongue in the workplace thanks to other immigrants from the same place. kovacs (2004)[87] describes this phenomenon in australia with finnish immigrants in the construction industry who spoke finnish during working hours. but even though foreign languages may be used in the workplace, english is still a must-know working skill. mainstream society justifies the divided job market, arguing that getting a low-paying job is the best newcomers can achieve considering their limited language skills. asia[edit] with companies going international they are now focusing more and more on the english level of their employees. especially in south korea since the 1990s, companies are using different english language testing to evaluate job applicants, and the criteria in those tests are constantly upgrading the level for good english. in india, it is even possible to receive training to acquire an english accent, as the number of outsourced call centers in india has soared in the past decades. meanwhile, japan ranks 53rd out of 100 countries in 2019 ef english proficiency index, amid calls for this to improve in time for the 2020 tokyo olympics.[citation needed] within multiracial countries such as malaysia and singapore, it is not unusual for one to speak two or more languages, albeit with varying degrees of fluency.[88][89][90] some are proficient in several chinese dialects, given the linguistic diversity of the ethnic chinese community in both countries. africa[edit] not only in multinational companies is english an important skill, but also in the engineering industry, in the chemical, electrical and aeronautical fields. a study directed by hill and van zyl (2002) shows that in south africa young black engineers used english most often for communication and documentation. however, afrikaans and other local languages were also used to explain particular concepts to workers in order to ensure understanding and cooperation.[91] europe[edit] play media a welsh government video of an english medium school in wales, where introducing a second language (welsh) has boosted the exam results. in europe, as the domestic market is generally quite restricted, international trade is a norm. languages, that are used in multiple countries, include: german in germany, austria, switzerland, liechtenstein, luxembourg, and belgium french in france, belgium, luxembourg, monaco, andorra and switzerland english in the united kingdom, ireland, and malta. english is a commonly taught second language at schools, so it is also the most common choice for two speakers, whose native languages are different. however, some languages are so close to each other that it is generally more common when meeting to use their mother tongue rather than english. these language groups include: danish, swedish and norwegian czech and slovak: during czechoslovak times, these were considered to be two different dialects of a common czechoslovak language. serbian, croatian, bosnian and montenegrin: standardized in the 19th century and throughout existence of yugoslavia, croatian and serbian were considered as western and eastern variants of a common, serbo-croatian language. after the breakup of yugoslavia, each successor state proclaimed and codified its own official language. in sociolinguistics, however, these are still considered standardized varieties of one pluricentric language, all based on shtokavian dialect, with the biggest distinction being the choice between ekavian and ijekavian yats. cyrillic and latin writing scripts are official in bosnian, montenegrin and serbian, while latin is exclusively official in croatian. in multilingual countries such as belgium (dutch, french, and german), finland (finnish and swedish), switzerland (german, french, italian and romansh), luxembourg (luxembourgish, french and german) or spain (spanish, catalan, basque and galician), it is common to see employees mastering two or even three of those languages. many minor russian ethnic groups, such as tatars, bashkirs and others, are also multilingual. moreover, with the beginning of compulsory study of the tatar language in tatarstan, there has been an increase in its level of knowledge of the russian-speaking population of the republic.[92] continued global diversity has led to an increasingly multilingual workforce. europe has become an excellent model to observe this newly diversified labor culture. the expansion of the european union with its open labor market has provided opportunities both for well-trained professionals and unskilled workers to move to new countries to seek employment. political changes and turmoil have also led to migration and the creation of new and more complex multilingual workplaces. in most wealthy and secure countries, immigrants are found mostly in low paid jobs but also, increasingly, in high-status positions.[93] music[edit] further information: list of multilingual bands and artists it is extremely common for music to be written in whatever the contemporary lingua franca is. if a song is not written in a common tongue, then it is usually written in whatever is the predominant language in the musician's country of origin, or in another widely recognized language, such as english, german, spanish, or french.[citation needed] the bilingual song cycles "there..." and "sing, poetry" on the 2011 contemporary classical album troika consist of musical settings of russian poems with their english self-translation by joseph brodsky and vladimir nabokov, respectively.[94] songs with lyrics in multiple languages are known as macaronic verse.[95] literature[edit] fiction[edit] multilingual stories, essays, and novels are often written by immigrants and second generation american authors.[96][97] chicana author gloria e. anzald?a, a major figure in the fields third world feminism, postcolonial feminism, and latino philosophy explained the author's existential sense of obligation to write multilingual literature.[98] an often quoted passage, from her collection of stories and essays entitled borderlands/la frontera: the new mestiza, states: "until i am free to write bilingually and to switch codes without having always to translate, while i still have to speak english or spanish when i would rather speak spanglish, and as long as i have to accommodate the english speakers rather than having them accommodate me, my tongue will be illegitimate. i will no longer be made to feel ashamed of existing. i will have my voice: indian, spanish, white. i will have my serpent?s tongue ? my woman?s voice, my sexual voice, my poet?s voice. i will overcome the tradition of silence".[99] multilingual novels by nigerian chimamanda ngozi adichie display phrases in igbo with translations, as in her early works purple hibiscus and half of a yellow sun. however, in her later novel americanah, the author does not offer translations of non-english passages.[99] the house on mango street by sandra cisneros is an example of chicano literature has untranslated, but italicized, spanish words and phrases throughout the text.[100] american novelists who use foreign languages (outside of their own cultural heritage) for literary effect, include cormac mccarthy who uses untranslated spanish and spanglish in his fiction.[101] poetry[edit] multilingual poetry is prevalent in us latino literature where code-switching and translanguaging between english, spanish, and spanglish is common within a single poem or throughout a book of poems.[102] latino poetry is also written in portuguese and can include phrases in nahuatl, mayan, huichol, arawakan, and other indigenous languages related to the latino experience. contemporary multilingual poets include giannina braschi, ana castillo, sandra cisneros, and guillermo g?mez-pe?a[103] film[edit] the 2021 indian documentary film dreaming of words traces the life and work of njattyela sreedharan, a fourth standard drop-out, who compiles a multilingual dictionary connecting four major dravidian languages malayalam, kannada, tamil and telugu.[104][105][106] travelling across four states and doing extensive research, he spent twenty five years[107] making this multilingual dictionary. see also[edit] cultural diversity list of multilingual countries and regions list of multilingual bands and artists list of multilingual presidents of the united states plurilingualism code-switching interlinguistics translanguaging linguistic rights metatypy multi-competence mutism neuroscience of multilingualism nonverbal autism one person, one language policies and proposals[edit] european commissioner for multilingualism european day of languages english-only movement language legislation in belgium languages of finland languages of the european union multilingualism in luxembourg official bilingualism in canada education[edit] international journal of bilingualism language education multilingual education multilingual education in africa other[edit] bilingual sign childhood bilingualism research centre (in hong kong) economics of language linguapax prize list of artworks known in english by a foreign title spanish language in the united states the multilingual library category:multilingual broadcasters notes[edit] 1. ^ see the critical period hypothesis. references[edit] ^ "a global perspective on bilingualism and bilingual education (1999), g. richard tucker, carnegie mellon university" (pdf). cal.org. retrieved 8 may 2018. ^ vald?s, guadalupe (2012). "multilingualism". linguistic society of america. retrieved 7 september 2016. ^ "europeans and their languages, a survey co-ordinated by the european commission" (pdf). european commission. archived (pdf) from the original on 5 february 2016. retrieved 15 november 2016. ^ "the importance of multilingualism". multilingualism.org. archived from the original on 28 august 2010. retrieved 16 september 2010. ^ "polyglot". free online dictionary, thesaurus and encyclopedia. thefreedictionary.com. retrieved 10 july 2010. ^ kennison, shelia m. (30 july 2013). introduction to language development. los angeles: sage publications. isbn 978-1-4129-9606-8. oclc 830837502. ^ taeschner 1983, p. 4. ^ a b kaushanskaya m, marian v (2009). "the bilingual advantage in novel word learning". psychonomic bulletin & review. 16 (4): 705?710. doi:10.3758/pbr.16.4.705. pmid 19648456. ^ "multi-competence definition". viviancook.uk. archived from the original on 22 october 2017. retrieved 8 may 2018. ^ a b c paradowski mb, bator a (2016). "perceived effectiveness of language acquisition in the process of multilingual upbringing by parents of different nationalities". international journal of bilingual education and bilingualism. 21 (6): 1?19. doi:10.1080/13670050.2016.1203858. s2cid 148407626. ^ cook, vivian (2008). second language learning and language teaching. hodder education. isbn 978-0-340-95876-6. ^ a.j. aitken in the oxford companion to the english language, oxford university press 1992. p.894 ^ ems ukaz ^ "writing with english as a second language". foreign-language.org. archived from the original on 21 april 2015. ^ korhonen, muusa (22 january 2022). "foreign languages in finland's educational system". the new federalist. retrieved 22 january 2022. ^ "english as a second language: who in europe speaks it best?". europe language jobs. 31 july 2018. retrieved 22 december 2018. ^ santrock, john w. (2008). bilingualism and second-language learning. a topical approach to life-span development (4th ed.) (pp. 330?335). new york, ny: mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ^ "euractiv: most eu students learn two foreign languages: study, 28 september 2009, retrieved november 2011". euractiv.com. archived from the original on 15 october 2017. retrieved 8 may 2018. ^ fathman, ann. the relationship between age and second language productive ability. 27 october 2006 ^ fathman, ann (1975). "the relationship between age and second language productive ability". language learning. 25 (2): 245?253. doi:10.1111/j.1467-1770.1975.tb00244.x. ^ a b kaplan, robert b. (1966). "cultural thought patterns in intercultural education". language learning. 16 (1?2): 1?20. doi:10.1111/j.1467-1770.1966.tb00804.x. ^ gadda, george (1994). "writing and language socialization across cultures: some implications for the classroom". in peitzman, faye; gadda, george (eds.). with different eyes: insights into teaching language minority students across the disciplines. addison-wesley. pp. 43?56. isbn 978-0-8013-1282-3. ^ pavlenko, aneta (2 june 2015). "can a second language help you learn a third?". psychology today: life as a bilingual. retrieved 7 september 2016. ^ nakamura, janice (1 september 2019). "receptive bilingual children's use of language in interaction". studies in language sciences. the japanese society for language sciences. 18: 46?66. ^ "ethnologue report for language code: spa". ethnologue.com. archived from the original on 18 april 2010. retrieved 10 july 2010. ^ weitzman, elaine. "one language or two? home language or not? some answers to questions about bilingualism in language-delayed children". hanen.org. the hanen centre. archived from the original on 30 may 2009. retrieved 8 may 2018. ^ gass, susan m. (2008). second language acquisition: an introductory course. routledge. isbn 978-0805854985. ^ "developing native language literacy in language minority adults". ericdigests.org. retrieved 24 february 2019. ^ trudell, barbara (may 2005). "language choice, education and community identity". international journal of educational development. 25 (3): 237?251. doi:10.1016/j.ijedudev.2004.08.004. cited in "the perils of learning in english". the economist. |access-date=24 february 2019 |date=21 february 2019 |quote=research demonstrates that children learn more when they are taught in their mother tongue than they do when they are taught in any other language. in a study of children in the first three years in 12 schools in cameroon, those taught in kom did better than those taught in english in all subjects. parents might say that the point is to prepare children for the workplace and that a grasp of english is more use than sums or history. yet by year five, the children taught in kom outperformed english-medium children even in english. perhaps this is because they gain a better grasp of the mechanics of reading and writing when they are learning the skills in a language they understand.}} ^ a b hakuta, 1990[full citation needed] ^ a b collier, 1992[full citation needed] ^ a b ramirez, 1992[full citation needed] ^ krzeminska, marta (19 july 2016). "the cult of the polyglot". archived from the original on 6 september 2016. retrieved 7 september 2016. ^ a b c erard, michael (2012). babel no more: the search for the world's most extraordinary language learners. free press. isbn 978-1-4516-2825-8. ^ a b hult, f.m. (2014). covert bilingualism and symbolic competence: analytical reflections on negotiating insider/outsider positionality in swedish speech situations. applied linguistics, 35(1), 63-81. ^ schmid, monika s.; dusseldorp, elise (2010). "quantitative analyses in a multivariate study of language attrition: the impact of extralinguistic factors". second language research. 26: 125?160. doi:10.1177/0267658309337641. s2cid 36475272. ^ bylund, emanuel (2009). "maturational constraints and first language attrition". language learning. 59 (3): 687?715. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9922.2009.00521.x. ^ bialystok e, martin mm (2004). "attention and inhibition in bilingual children: evidence from the dimensional change card sort task". dev sci. 7 (3): 325?39. doi:10.1111/j.1467-7687.2004.00351.x. pmid 15595373. ^ bialystok e, craik fi, grady c, chau w, ishii r, gunji a, pantev c (2005). "effect of bilingualism on cognitive control in the simon task: evidence from meg". neuroimage. 24 (1): 40?49. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2004.09.044. pmid 15588595. s2cid 32548028. ^ kluger, jeffrey (18 july 2013). "how the brain benefits from being bilingual". time. archived from the original on 21 july 2013. ^ atkinson al (2016). "does bilingualism delay the development of dementia?". journal of european psychology students. 7 (1): 43?50. doi:10.5334/jeps.375. ^ skibba, ramin (2018). "how a second language can boost the brain". knowable magazine. doi:10.1146/knowable-112918-1. s2cid 189556357. ^ yong, ed (10 february 2016). "the bitter fight over the benefits of bilingualism". the atlantic. archived from the original on 11 february 2016. retrieved 11 february 2016. ^ lehtonen, minna; soveri, anna; laine, aini; j?rvenp??, janica; de bruin, angela; antfolk, jan (april 2018). "is bilingualism associated with enhanced executive functioning in adults? a meta-analytic review" (pdf). psychological bulletin. 144 (4): 394?425. doi:10.1037/bul0000142. hdl:10810/26594. pmid 29494195. s2cid 4444068. ^ de bruin, angela; treccani, barbara; della sala, sergio (january 2015). "cognitive advantage in bilingualism: an example of publication bias?" (pdf). psychological science. 26 (1): 99?107. doi:10.1177/0956797614557866. hdl:20.500.11820/1c7d702a-90a7-484d-9d2a-d5841d4a1f49. pmid 25475825. s2cid 13721983. ^ paap, kenneth r.; johnson, hunter a.; sawi, oliver (august 2015). "bilingual advantages in executive functioning either do not exist or are restricted to very specific and undetermined circumstances". cortex. 69: 265?278. doi:10.1016/j.cortex.2015.04.014. pmid 26048659. s2cid 25008687. ^ gullifer, j. w., titone, d. (2020). "characterizing the social diversity of bilingualism using language entropy" (pdf). bilingualism: language and cognition. 23 (2): 283?294. doi:10.1017/s1366728919000026. s2cid 150591937. ^ surrain, s., luk, g. (march 2019). "describing bilinguals: a systematic review of labels and descriptions used in the literature between 2005-2015". bilingualism-language and cognition. 22 (2): 401?415. doi:10.1017/s1366728917000682. issn 1366-7289. s2cid 149426763. ^ beatty-mart?nez, a. l., navarro-torres, c. a., dussias, p. e., bajo, m. t., guzzardo tamargo, r. e., kroll, j. f. (2020). "interactional context mediates the consequences of bilingualism for language and cognition". journal of experimental psychology: learning, memory, and cognition. american psychological association. 46 (6): 1022?1047. doi:10.1037/xlm0000770. eissn 1939-1285. issn 0278-7393. pmc 7117987. pmid 31580119. ^ gullifer, j. w., chai, x. j., whitford, v., pivneva, i., baum, s., klein, d., titone, d. (august 2018). "bilingual experience and resting-state brain connectivity: impacts of l2 age of acquisition and social diversity of language use on control networks" (pdf). neuropsychologia. 117: 123?134. doi:10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2018.04.037. eissn 1873-3514. issn 0028-3932. pmc 6086747. pmid 29727624. ^ gullifer, j. w., titone, d. (october 2020). "engaging proactive control: influences of diverse language experiences using insights from machine learning" (pdf). journal of experimental psychology: general. 150 (3): 414?430. doi:10.1037/xge0000933. eissn 1939-2222. issn 0096-3445. pmc 7954783. pmid 33001688. ^ sulpizio, s., maschio, n. d., mauro, g. d., fedeli, d., abutalebi, j. (2020). "bilingualism as a gradient measure modulates functional connectivity of language and control networks". neuroimage. 205: 116306. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116306. pmid 31654763. s2cid 204837800. ^ the new economy and languages: hypia in neoliberalism. the papers of the international association of hyperpolyglots (hypia). social science research network (ssrn). accessed 15 february 2021. ^ grin, fran?ois; sfreddo, claudio; vaillancourt, fran?ois (2013). economics of the multilingual workplace. [s.l.]: routledge. isbn 978-0-415-85106-0. ^ agirdag, o. (2014). "the long-term effects of bilingualism on children of immigration: student bilingualism and future earnings". international journal of bilingual education and bilingualism. 17 (4): 449?464. doi:10.1080/13670050.2013.816264. s2cid 27479622. ^ boaz keysar; sayuri l. hayakawa; sun gyu an (18 april 2012). "the foreign-language effect: thinking in a foreign tongue reduces decision biases". psychological science. 23 (6): 661?668. doi:10.1177/0956797611432178. pmid 22517192. s2cid 1397617. ^ a b gawinkowska m, paradowski mb, bilewicz m (2013). "second language as an exemption from sociocultural norms. emotion-related language choice revisited". plos one. 8 (12): e8122. bibcode:2013ploso...881225g. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0081225. pmc 3859501. pmid 24349044. ^ costa, albert; foucart, alice; hayakawa, sayuri; aparici, melina; apesteguia, jose; heafner, joy; keysar, boaz (23 april 2014). "your morals depend on language". plos one. public library of science (plos). 9 (4): e94842. bibcode:2014ploso...994842c. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0094842. issn 1932-6203. pmc 3997430. pmid 24760073. ^ halwachs, d.w. (1993). "polysystem, repertoire und identit?t" [polysystem repertoire and identity]. grazer linguistische studien (in german). 39?40: 71?90. ^ dewaele, j.; li wei (2012). "multilingualism, empathy, and multicompetence" (pdf). international journal of multilingualism. 9 (4): 352?366. doi:10.1080/14790718.2012.714380. s2cid 32872300. archived from the original (pdf) on 9 october 2013. ^ dewaele, j. (2007). "the effect of multilingualism, socio-biographical, and situational factors on communicative anxiety and foreign language anxiety of mature language learners" (pdf). international journal of bilingualism. 11 (4): 391?409. doi:10.1177/13670069070110040301. s2cid 51402969. ^ grosjean, fran?ois. "life as a bilingual". psychology today.[verification needed] ^ tokuhama-espinosa, t. (2003). the multilingual mind: issues discussed by, for, and about people living with many languages. westport, connecticut: praeger publishers. ^ wang, x. (2008). growing up with three languages: birth to eleven. briston, united kingdom: multilingualism matters. ^ grosjean, fran?ois (1996). "living with two languages and two cultures". in i. parasnis (ed.). cultural and language diversity and the deaf experience. cambridge university press. ^ who is a hyperpolyglot? linguistic anthropology ejournal. social science research network (ssrn). accessed 7 february 2021. ^ steinmetz, katy are you a hyperpolyglot: the secrets of language superlearners, time ^ a b hudson, richard (2008). "word grammar, cognitive linguistics, and second language learning and teaching" (pdf). in peter robinson; nick ellis (eds.). handbook of cognitive linguistics and second language acquisition. new york: routledge. isbn 9780805853513. ^ leland, john (9 march 2012). "adventures of a teenage polyglot". the new york times. retrieved 5 april 2012. ^ miller, lk (1999). "the savant syndrome: intellectual impairment and exceptional skill". psychological bulletin. 125 (1): 31?46. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.125.1.31. pmid 9990844. ^ bolte, s (2004). "comparing the intelligence profiles of savant and nonsavant individuals with autistic disorder". intelligence. 32 (2): 121. doi:10.1016/j.intell.2003.11.002. ^ treffert, darold a. (27 may 2009). "the savant syndrome: an extraordinary condition. a synopsis: past, present, future". philosophical transactions of the royal society b: biological sciences. 364 (1522): 1351?1357. doi:10.1098/rstb.2008.0326. pmc 2677584. pmid 19528017. ^ bates, elizabeth (september 1997). "on language savants and the structure of the mind review of: the mind of a savant: language learning and modularity by neil smith and ianthi-maria tsimpli, 1995". international journal of bilingualism. 1 (2): 163?179. doi:10.1177/136700699700100204. s2cid 142262640. ^ smith, neil; tsimpli, ianthi maria (august 1991). "linguistic modularity? a case study of a 'savant' linguist". lingua. 84 (4): 315?351. doi:10.1016/0024-3841(91)90034-3. ^ core, cynthia; hoff, erika; rumiche, rosario; se?or, melissa (october 2013). "total and conceptual vocabulary in spanish?english bilinguals from 22 to 30 months: implications for assessment". journal of speech, language, and hearing research. 56 (5): 1637?1649. doi:10.1044/1092-4388(2013/11-0044). pmc 4337205. pmid 24023382. ^ mathews, jay (25 april 2019). "half of the world is bilingual. what's our problem?". the washington post. archived from the original on 25 april 2019. ^ a b c d baker, colin; wright, wayne (2017). foundations of bilingual education and bilingualism. uk: multilingual matters. isbn 9781783097210. ^ a b c d e f g h i espinosa, linda (2015). "challenges and benefits of early bilingualism in the united states' context" (pdf). global education review. 2: 1?14 ? via eric. ^ a b c d e f g roessingh, hetty; kover, pat (26 june 2002). "working with younger-arriving esl learners in high school english: never too late to reclaim potential". tesl canada journal. 19 (2): 01. doi:10.18806/tesl.v19i2.926. issn 1925-8917. ^ wolff, ekkehard (2000). language and society. in: bernd heine and derek nurse (eds.) african languages - an introduction, 317. cambridge university press. ^ m.h. bakalla (1984), arabic culture through its language and literature, kegan paul international, london ^ poplack shana (1980). "sometimes i'll start a sentence in spanish y termino en espa?ol": toward a typology of code-switching". linguistics. 18 (7/8): 581?618. doi:10.1515/ling.1980.18.7-8.581. hdl:10315/2506. s2cid 201699959. ^ musilov?, kv?ta (2003). v?vojov? tendence v komunikaci ?ech? a slov?k? po rozd?len? ?sfr. pp. 223?229. isbn 80-244-0628-4. ^ dedi?, n. and stanier c., 2016., "an evaluation of the challenges of multilingualism in data warehouse development" in 18th international conference on enterprise information systems - iceis 2016, p. 196. ^ "the new reynell developmental language scales". oro.open.ac.uk. 22 april 2011. archived from the original on 22 december 2015. retrieved 21 december 2015. ^ "jan nelson (microsoft): the multilingual app toolkit version 3.0". youtube.com. archived from the original on 16 december 2015. retrieved 21 december 2015. ^ kovacs, m. (2004). australian finns on the verge of language shift. pp. 108, 200?223. ^ "9 of the world's most multilingual countries". mother nature network. 28 june 2014. archived from the original on 5 october 2016. ^ platt, john t. (december 1977). "a model for polyglossia and multilingualism (with special reference to singapore and malaysia)". language in society. 6 (3): 361?378. doi:10.1017/s0047404500005066. jstor 4166945. ^ lim, lisa. "english and multilingualism in singapore". encyclopedia of applied linguistics. wiley online. ^ gunnarsson, britt-louise (march 2013). "multilingualism in the workplace". annual review of applied linguistics. 33: 162?189. doi:10.1017/s0267190513000123. s2cid 145761597. ^ "????????? ? ??????????". ^ gunnarsson, britt-louise (2014). "multilingualism in european workplaces". multilingua. 33 (1?2): 11?33. doi:10.1515/multi-2014-0002. s2cid 144233073. ^ kogan, julia (2013). troika, russia's westerly poetry in three orchestral song cycles (cd). asin b005usb24a. ^ harvey, carol j. (1978). "macaronic techniques in anglo-norman verse". l'esprit cr?ateur. 18 (1): 70?81. jstor 26280874. ^ "second-generation americans". pew research center?s social & demographic trends project. 7 february 2013. retrieved 4 november 2020. ^ "second generation stories | literature by children of immigrants". retrieved 4 november 2020. ^ lunsford, andrea a.; ouzgane, lahoucine (1 january 2004). crossing borderlands: composition and postcolonial studies. university of pittsburgh pre. isbn 978-0-8229-7253-2. ^ a b fowler, yara rodrigues (17 april 2019). "top 10 bilingual books". the guardian. ^ "hispanic heritage month: recommending latin american women authors". the new york public library. retrieved 4 november 2020. ^ munoz, mary elizabeth. thinking in uno and reading en otro: codeswitching in american novels (thesis thesis). texas am international university. ^ p?rez, rolando (2020), stavans, ilan (ed.), "the bilingualisms of latino/a literatures", the oxford handbook of latino studies, oxford university press, pp. 281?306, doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780190691202.013.31, isbn 978-0-19-069120-2, retrieved 4 november 2020 ^ stavans, ilan, ed. (2011). the fsg book of twentieth-century latin american poetry: an anthology (1st ed.). new york: farrar, straus, giroux. isbn 978-0-374-10024-7. oclc 650212679. ^ "82-year-old kerala man's dictionary is in the four dravidian languages. 25 long years to compile". ^ "83-yo kerala school dropout creates unique dictionary in 4 south indian languages". 31 december 2020. ^ sajit, c. p. (30 october 2020). "for keralites, door opens to three other dravidian languages". the hindu. ^ "the man who wrote a dictionary in four languages - silver talkies". silvertalkies.com. further reading[edit] valore, paulo (2011), multilingualism. language, power, and knowledge, edistudio, pisa, isbn 978-88-7036-809-3, texts in english and italian. bhatia, tej; ritchie, william c. (2004). the handbook of bilingualism. oxford: blackwell publishing. isbn 978-0-631-22735-9. bialystok, ellen (march 2017). "the bilingual adaptation: how minds accommodate experience". psychological bulletin. 143 (3): 233?262. doi:10.1037/bul0000099. pmc 5324728. pmid 28230411. burck, charlotte (2007). multilingual living. basingstoke: palgrave macmillan. isbn 978-0-230-55433-7. jared diamond, the world until yesterday: what can we learn from traditional societies? (especially chapter ten: "speaking in many tongues"), penguin books, 2012 ( isbn 978-0-141-02448-6). komorowska, hanna (2011). issues in promoting multilingualism. teaching ? learning ? assessment. warsaw: foundation for the development of the education system. isbn 978-83-62634-19-4. kramsch, claire (3 june 2011). "are you another person when you speak another language?". berkeley language center. retrieved 2 june 2013. romaine, suzanne (1995). bilingualism. oxford: blackwell. isbn 978-0-631-19539-9. baker, colin; prys, sylvia (1998). encyclopedia of bilingualism and bilingual education. isbn 978-1853593628. external links[edit] look up multilingual, multilingualism, bilingual, or bilingualism in wiktionary, the free dictionary. library resources about multilingualism resources in your library resources in other libraries media related to multilingualism at wikimedia commons v t e second-language acquisition general outline common misconceptions subfields attrition classroom research education phonology writing learners multilingualism heritage language multi-competence learner language contrastive analysis contrastive rhetoric error (linguistics) error analysis error treatment interlanguage silent period linguistic factors language transfer linguistic universal word lists by frequency individual variation language-learning aptitude critical period hypothesis motivation willingness to communicate foreign language anxiety metalinguistic awareness strategies language learning strategies communication strategies code-switching good language learner studies sla hypotheses competition model comprehensible output connectionism dynamic systems theory generative second-language acquisition input hypothesis interaction hypothesis interface hypothesis interface position noticing hypothesis processability theory order of acquisition skill-based theories in the classroom focus on form input enhancement aptitude tests mlat dlab plab canal-f notable researchers alderson arguelles bialystok carroll crossley csiz?r cumming de bot brown bygate corder cumming van dijk d?rnyei ellis ellis ervin-tripp gass van geert green grosjean guardado harding jarvis johnson kormos krashen kroll larsen-freeman li long lowie mackey macwhinney manch?n marian matsuda matthews meisel myers-scotton nation ortega pica polio pimsleur rivers schmidt schmitt silva-corvalan slobin storch swain terrell ullman vaid vanpatten verspoor white wray yip associations european association for the teaching of academic writing eurosla computational tools coh-metrix l2 syntactic complexity analyzer journals applied linguistics bilingualism: language and cognition language learning language testing journal of second language writing system tesol journal tesol quarterly the modern language journal portal: languages authority control national libraries ukraine 2 germany israel united states japan other faceted application of subject terminology retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=multilingualism&oldid=1079939041" categories: multilingualism language acquisition sociology of language neurolinguistics hidden categories: all articles with incomplete citations articles with incomplete citations from april 2021 articles with incomplete citations from january 2021 cs1: long volume value cs1 german-language sources (de) all pages needing factual verification wikipedia articles needing factual verification from january 2021 articles with short description short description matches wikidata use dmy dates from october 2021 all articles with unsourced statements articles with unsourced statements from november 2008 wikipedia articles needing clarification from july 2014 articles with unsourced statements from june 2018 articles with unsourced statements from april 2018 articles with unsourced statements from october 2012 commons category link is on wikidata articles with emu identifiers articles with gnd identifiers articles with j9u identifiers articles with lccn identifiers articles with ndl identifiers articles with fast identifiers articles with multiple identifiers navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons wikiversity languages ??????? ??????? aymar aru az?rbaycanca ????? ????????? brezhoneg catal? ?e?tina dansk deutsch eesti ???????? espa?ol esperanto euskara ????? fran?ais gaeilge g?idhlig galego ???????? ??? ??????? ?????? hrvatski bahasa indonesia interlingua ?slenska italiano ????? ??????? latina latvie?u ?????????? malti ????? ???? bahasa melayu nederlands ??? nordfriisk norsk bokm?l norsk nynorsk ?????? papiamentu polski portugu?s rom?n? rumantsch ??????? ????? simple english sloven?ina ?????? / srpski srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? sunda suomi svenska ????? taqbaylit ???? ?????? t?rk?e ?????????? ???? v?neto ti?ng vi?t ?? ?? ?? edit links this page was last edited on 29 march 2022, at 13:05 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
