https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0064116/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_46::once upon a time in the west (1968) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) once upon a time in the west original title: c'era una volta il west 19681968 13+13+ 2h 45m imdb rating 8.5/10 322k your rating rate popularity 1,316 200 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer3:02 1 video 99+ photos western a mysterious stranger with a harmonica joins forces with a notorious desperado to protect a beautiful widow from a ruthless assassin working for the railroad.a mysterious stranger with a harmonica joins forces with a notorious desperado to protect a beautiful widow from a ruthless assassin working for the railroad.a mysterious stranger with a harmonica joins forces with a notorious desperado to protect a beautiful widow from a ruthless assassin working for the railroad. imdb rating 8.5/10 322k your rating rate popularity 1,316 200 director sergio leone writers sergio donati(screenplay by) sergio leone(screenplay by) dario argento(from a story by) stars henry fonda charles bronson claudia cardinale top credits director sergio leone writers sergio donati(screenplay by) sergio leone(screenplay by) dario argento(from a story by) stars henry fonda charles bronson claudia cardinale see production, box office & company info 799user reviews 143critic reviews 80metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #46 awards 4 wins & 5 nominations videos1 trailer 3:02 once upon a time in the west photos214 top cast edit henry fonda frankas frank charles bronson harmonicaas harmonica claudia cardinale jill mcbainas jill mcbain jason robards manuel 'cheyenne' guti?rrezas manuel 'cheyenne' guti?rrez gabriele ferzetti morton - railroad baronas morton - railroad baron paolo stoppa samas sam woody strode stony - member of frank's gangas stony - member of frank's gang jack elam snaky - member of frank's gangas snaky - member of frank's gang keenan wynn sheriff - auctioneeras sheriff - auctioneer frank wolff brett mcbainas brett mcbain lionel stander barmanas barman livio andronico bit partas bit part (uncredited) salvatore basile member of cheyenne's gangas member of cheyenne's gang (uncredited) aldo berti member of frank's gang playing pokeras member of frank's gang playing poker (uncredited) joseph bradley train station masteras train station master (uncredited) frank bra?a member of frank's gang smoking pipe at auctionas member of frank's gang smoking pipe at auction (uncredited) maril? carteny mourner at brett mcbain's funeralas mourner at brett mcbain's funeral (uncredited) saturno cerra member of frank's gang on trainas member of frank's gang on train (uncredited) director sergio leone writers sergio donati(screenplay by) sergio leone(screenplay by) (from a story by) dario argento(from a story by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.3 for a few dollars more watch options 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options 8.4 once upon a time in america watch options 7.9 for a fistful of dollars watch options 8.5 modern times watch options 8.5 casablanca watch options 8.5 rear window watch options 8.7 seven samurai watch options 7.6 a fistful of dynamite watch options 8.5 psycho watch options 8.5 apocalypse now watch options 8.5 city lights watch options storyline edit jill mcbain travels to the wild frontier, utah, where she and her new husband planned to settle down, but upon arrival, she finds him and his children dead. there's a lot of land, and potential, but there are also those who want to take it--at any cost. even if it means killing a man and his kids. ?drgoodbeat harmonicaformer prostitutearizona territoryyuma territorial prisonwidow188 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines there were three men in her life. one knew her past. one wanted her land. one wanted revenge. genre western certificate 13+ parents guide did you know edit trivia henry fonda originally turned down the role of frank. director sergio leone flew to the united states and met with fonda, who asked why he was wanted for the film. leone replied, "picture this: the camera shows a gunman from the waist down pulling his gun and shooting a running child. the camera pans up to the gunman's face and...it's henry fonda" (until then, with one exception, fonda had only been cast in "good guy" roles. leone wanted the audience to be shocked). goofs frank goes to morton's train and finds that dead bodies are scattered around. but the train's fireman appears not to be bothered. the engine's safety valve opens frequently, which means that the fireman dutifully keeps doing his job and keeps the boiler at maximum pressure. (the fireman and the driver never appear in the movie, but they must be there.) quotes harmonica: [facing three men] and frank? snaky: frank sent us. harmonica: did you bring a horse for me? snaky: well... looks like we're... [snickers] snaky: ...looks like we're shy one horse. harmonica: [shaking head] you brought two too many. crazy credits the film's title does not appear until the end of the final scene. alternate versions frank's line upon giving harmonica his namesake varies from version to version. the italian translates to "play something for your brother," but the most common english version is "keep your loving brother happy," and the german translates to "play me the song of death." the german movie title was inspired by this line. connections edited into the clock (2010) soundtracks danny boy (1913) (uncredited) written by by frederick edward weatherly hummed and sung a cappella a bit by simonetta santaniello user reviews799 review top review 10/10 more western than 'the western' itself in full silence, three mysterious men in long trench coats wait in a remote train station. their faces have anticipation written all over them, even while the most interesting things they can find to do are toying with a fly, drinking water from a hat and cracking their fingers. a dog runs past. the windmill squeaks. the ticket vendor is locked away. the heath bounces off the wooden platform. the men sweat. are you bored yet? then this movie is probably not for you. but are you dying to know what the three men are waiting for? does a light anxiety creep onto you whilst reading that description? can't you wait for the tension to resolve? then this movie is all you ever wanted. the almost lawless world where outlaws and bandits roam the country with ease that is the setting of the story, is shown by tonino delli colli (director of photography) in all its splendorous grandeur and it's uncountable little details. the set pieces, the costumes and the real life locations in arizona and utah make everything believable. and together with the characters and figurants, everything creates a vibrant and utterly believable western civilisation. charles bronson plays the man with the harmonica: a lone wolf looking for something that he chooses not to reveal to anyone until he gets it. a character with no name roaming the endless fields under the sun, announcing his presence at all times with the same melody he plays on his harmonica that echo's in an unsettling way. bronson does this brilliantly, with a face that overflows with held back emotions and a determination that is downright scary. in a tavern the man meets manuel 'cheyenne' guti?rrez (jason robards), a bandit that recently escaped being hung by the neck, re-joining his band of outlaws. with already greying hair, he takes on the situation that arises in the area, trying his part to be the hero that saves the day. robards portrays a character that, by only one look at him, we can see how the years have shaped him. his performance is outstanding; we want to grab a drink with cheyenne, but we also get the feeling that being on your guard around him wouldn't be an overrated luxury. the 'damsel in distress' (although she isn't in the original meaning of the word) jill mcbain (played by claudia cardinale) turns into a toy of fate itself. without any warning she gets involved in something quite over her head, but she handles it masterfully; she refuses to return to new orleans with her tail between her legs and stays to face the difficulties put before her. cardinale playing jill is both an erotic marvel and a woman you wouldn't want to cross. they are all opposed by frank (henry fonda): the local gang leader with a heart of stone and a business proposal at the ready at all times. with his ruthless blue eyes and his gun at the ready he keeps the town quiet. fonda gives you the creeps with just one gaze at the camera and every sentence leaves the bitter taste of malfeasance. and finally, gabriele ferzetti finishes the line of main characters with his deliciously sickening portrayal of the crippled railroad baron morton. a character that you'd like to slap in the face, but one you feel pity for as well. outstandingly brought! the soundtrack is composed by the never beaten maestro of film scoring himself: ennio morricone. his genius lies in the creation of themes and melodies that will haunt your dreams forever for better or worse. the melancholic main theme that is brought with a heavenly choir draws tears from your eyes after hearing only a couple of chords. the theme of the man with the harmonica is as unsettling as it is epic and cheyennes' theme creates the lighter counter points in the movie. morricone uses these motifs ingeniously, hinting at plot points, character motifs and feelings and giving you a sense of the world the movie takes place in. if i could give twelve out of ten stars for the score, i'd do it. sergio leone was a masterful director, no need to prove that. he manages to turn even a scene of seven minutes, where three men are merely waiting for a train, into an epic storyline. two hours and three quarters the tension builds and then resolves... partially, always building towards the end. and that finale! that finale! that finale chilled me to the bone! throughout the film, question after question is raised, and when one question is answered, another one pops up. so when all pieces of the puzzle fall into place to the score of ennio morricone, how can one not be moved by it? for leone, there was no better way to reach the top of the western genre. and for us, there never will be a film that is more western than 'once upon a time in the west'. helpful?100 3 thedragontrader apr 24, 2019 faq6 is this movie based on a book? what is the sequence of events involving the ambush of frank in flagstone and cheyenne's attack on morton's train? why doesn't frank kill morton? details edit release date december 21, 1968 (italy) countries of origin italy united states languages italian english spanish also known as il ?tait une fois dans l'ouest filming locations monument valley, arizona, usa production companies rafran cinematografica san marco paramount pictures see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $5,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $5,321,508 gross worldwide $5,434,825 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 45 minutes color color sound mix mono aspect ratio 2.35 : 1 related news how sergio leone's westerns rewrote the rules of filmmaking mar 21slash film why henry fonda walked out of the room the first time he saw 12 angry men mar 21slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap by what name was c'era una volta il west (1968) officially released in japan in japanese? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
