https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073486/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_18::one flew over the cuckoo's nest (1975) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) one flew over the cuckoo's nest 19751975 13+13+ 2h 13m imdb rating 8.7/10 978k your rating rate popularity 379 7 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:35 7 videos 99+ photos drama a criminal pleads insanity and is admitted to a mental institution, where he rebels against the oppressive nurse and rallies up the scared patients.a criminal pleads insanity and is admitted to a mental institution, where he rebels against the oppressive nurse and rallies up the scared patients.a criminal pleads insanity and is admitted to a mental institution, where he rebels against the oppressive nurse and rallies up the scared patients. imdb rating 8.7/10 978k your rating rate popularity 379 7 director milos forman writers lawrence hauben(screenplay) bo goldman(screenplay) ken kesey(based on the novel by) stars jack nicholson louise fletcher michael berryman top credits director milos forman writers lawrence hauben(screenplay) bo goldman(screenplay) ken kesey(based on the novel by) stars jack nicholson louise fletcher michael berryman see production, box office & company info 1.1kuser reviews 177critic reviews 84metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #18 won 5 oscars 38 wins & 16 nominations total videos7 trailer 2:35 trailer trailer 2:44 one flew over the cuckoo's nest clip 3:36 how "the umbrella academy" survives 1960s dallas in season 2 clip 2:53 does 'joker' exist in a scorsese-verse of films? clip 2:01 one flew over the cuckoo's nest interview 3:25 'the new mutants' cast reveal characters & film inspirations video 3:09 why the "ratched" set was nothing but good vibes photos224 top cast edit jack nicholson r.p. mcmurphyas r.p. mcmurphy louise fletcher nurse ratchedas nurse ratched michael berryman ellisas ellis peter brocco col. mattersonas col. matterson dean r. brooks dr. spiveyas dr. spivey alonzo brown milleras miller scatman crothers turkleas turkle mwako cumbuka warrenas warren danny devito martinias martini william duell sefeltas sefelt josip elic bancinias bancini lan fendors nurse itsuas nurse itsu nathan george washingtonas washington ken kenny beans garfieldas beans garfield mel lambert harbor masteras harbor master sydney lassick cheswickas cheswick kay lee night supervisoras night supervisor christopher lloyd taberas taber director milos forman writers lawrence hauben(screenplay) bo goldman(screenplay) ken kesey(based on the novel by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.5 american history x watch options 8.6 city of god watch options 8.5 the usual suspects watch options 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options storyline edit mcmurphy has a criminal past and has once again gotten himself into trouble and is sentenced by the court. to escape labor duties in prison, mcmurphy pleads insanity and is sent to a ward for the mentally unstable. once here, mcmurphy both endures and stands witness to the abuse and degradation of the oppressive nurse ratched, who gains superiority and power through the flaws of the other inmates. mcmurphy and the other inmates band together to make a rebellious stance against the atrocious nurse. ?jacob oberfrank mental institutionnurseescapetragicomedynative american169 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines if he's crazy, what does that make you? genre drama certificate 13+ parents guide did you know edit trivia many extras were authentic mental patients. goofs the monopoly game has plastic houses and hotels - in 1963, they would still be made of wood. quotes mcmurphy: jesus, i mean, you guys do nothing but complain about how you can't stand it in this place here and you don't have the guts just to walk out? what do you think you are, for chrissake, crazy or somethin'? well you're not! you're not! you're no crazier than the average asshole out walkin' around on the streets and that's it. crazy credits the cast is credited in alphabetical order in the end credits, except for brad dourif, who is listed last as follows: "and introducing / brad dourif as billy bibbit". connections edited into tell me love is real (2016) soundtracks charmaine (1926) (uncredited) music by lew pollack and erno rapee played on a record reprised in the score near the end user reviews1.1k review top review 10/10 "what an excellent movie" is all that went through my mind after seeing this masterpiece what a movie, what an excellent movie!!! that is what first went through my mind after seeing this masterpiece. i've seen many movies, but there aren't much movies which had such an impact on me. nowadays almost all filmmakers believe they can only make a good movie by adding loads of special effects and lots of huge explosions ... this movie is so good, so convincing without them. the actors played their roles in such a convincing way that you would think these weren't actors at all, but real psychiatric patients. this movie may be 30 years old, but it hasn't lost any of its relevancy. ok, we don't put our mentally ill people in that kind of prisons anymore, the bars in front of the windows have gone and now we call it hospitals in stead of nut houses. but the treatment hasn't changed all that much. i once worked in such a hospital as a volunteer and still saw things like forced feeding, giving people so much medication until they no longer know who or where they are,... when the movie first came out, some people were shocked because when you watch the movie, you can't help it feeling more attached to the patients than to the doctors and nurses. this movie shows that cinema can make a difference. it can help to open people's eyes. if there is a movie that should be seen by everyone, this sure is the one. i give it a well deserved 10/10. helpful?218 36 philip_vanderveken sep 14, 2004 faq9 what is "one flew over the cuckoo's nest" about? is this film based on a book? what does the title mean? details edit release date november 19, 1975 (united states) country of origin united states language english also known as vol au-dessus d'un nid de coucou filming locations oregon state mental hospital - 2600 center street ne, salem, oregon, usa production companies fantasy films bryna productions n.v. zvaluw see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $3,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $108,981,275 gross worldwide $109,114,817 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 13 minutes color color sound mix mono aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news daniel waters mar 29trailers from hell denzel washington: how long is each of his oscar-nominated performances? mar 14gold derby contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of one flew over the cuckoo's nest (1975) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
