https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_collaboration::open collaboration - wikipedia open collaboration from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value open collaboration is "any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value, which they make available to contributors and noncontributors alike."[1] it is prominently observed in open source software, but can also be found in many other instances, such as in internet forums, mailing lists and online communities. open collaboration is also thought to be the operating principle underlining a gamut of diverse ventures, including bitcoin, tedx, and wikipedia.[2] contents 1 definition 2 history 3 academia 4 see also 5 references definition[edit] juliet schor noted that "a clear definition of technology-mediated open collaboration might be difficult to pin down".[1]:?7? riehle et al. define open collaboration as collaboration based on three principles of egalitarianism, meritocracy, and self-organization.[3] levine and piretula define open collaboration as "any system of innovation or production that relies on goal-oriented yet loosely coordinated participants who interact to create a product (or service) of economic value, which they make available to contributors and noncontributors alike."[4][5] this definition captures multiple instances, all joined by similar principles. for example, all of the elements ? goods of economic value, open access to contribute and consume, interaction and exchange, purposeful yet loosely coordinated work ? are present in an open source software project, in wikipedia, or in a user forum or community. they can also be present in a commercial website that is based on user-generated content. in all of these instances of open collaboration, anyone can contribute and anyone can freely partake in the fruits of sharing, which are produced by interacting participants who are loosely coordinated.[1]:?17? history[edit] open collaboration is the principle underlying peer production,[1]:?48? and mass collaboration.[citation needed] it was observed initially in open source software, and has been popularized by richard stallman's gnu manifesto.[1]:?17?18? since then it can also be found in many other instances, such as in internet forums,[6] mailing lists,[7] internet communities,[8] and many instances of open content, such as creative commons. it also explains some instances of crowdsourcing, collaborative consumption, and open innovation.[citation needed] academia[edit] an annual conference dedicated to the research and practice of open collaboration is the international symposium on open collaboration (opensym, formerly wikisym).[9] as per its website, the group defines open collaboration as "collaboration that is egalitarian (everyone can join, no principled or artificial barriers to participation exist), meritocratic (decisions and status are merit-based rather than imposed) and self-organizing (processes adapt to people rather than people adapt to pre-defined processes)."[10] see also[edit] commons-based peer production money-free market open-source model resource-based economy references[edit] ^ a b c d e dariusz jemielniak; aleksandra przegalinska (18 february 2020). collaborative society. mit press. isbn 978-0-262-35645-9. ^ "open collaboration leading to novel organizations - american'girl rachel and sons the crimson white brothers". ^ riehle, d.; ellenberger, j.; menahem, t.; mikhailovski, b.; natchetoi, y.; naveh, b.; odenwald, t. (march 2009). "open collaboration within corporations using software forges" (pdf). ieee software. 26 (2): 52?58. doi:10.1109/ms.2009.44. issn 0740-7459. ^ levine, sheen s.; prietula, michael j. (2014). "open collaboration for innovation: principles and performance". organization science. 25 (5): 1414?1433. arxiv:1406.7541. doi:10.1287/orsc.2013.0872. issn 1047-7039. s2cid 6583883. ^ levine, sheen s., & prietula, m. j. (2013). open collaboration for innovation: principles and performance. organization science, doi:10.1287/orsc.2013.0872 ^ lakhani, karim r., & von hippel, eric (2003). how open source software works: free user to user assistance. research policy, 32, 923?943 doi:10.2139/ssrn.290305 ^ jarvenpaa, s. l., & majchrzak, ann (2008). knowledge collaboration among professionals protecting national security: role of transactive memories in ego-centered knowledge networks. organization science, 19(2), 260-276 doi:10.1287/orsc.1070.0315 ^ faraj, s., jarvenpaa, s. l., & majchrzak, ann (2011). knowledge collaboration in online communities. organization science, 22(5), 1224-1239, doi:10.1287/orsc.1100.0614 ^ "about". the international symposium on open collaboration. 15 june 2010. ^ ". kenneth pascal (12 april 2013). "definition of open collaboration". the international symposium on open collaboration. retrieved 2018-03-26. open collaboration is collaboration that is egalitarian everyone can join, no principled or artificial barriers to participation exist, meritocratic (decisions and status are merit-based rather than imposed) and self-organizing (processes adapt to people rather than people adapt to pre-defined processes). v t e open-source movements concepts and practices key concepts commons-based peer production crowdsourcing gratis versus libre open collaboration open source openness participatory culture sharism social peer-to-peer processes peer-to-peer banking peer-to-peer carsharing peer-to-peer lending peer-to-peer ridesharing research and science citizen science open science access notebook science research science data plan s data, information, and knowledge free content knowledge commons open communication open knowledge content data communication and learning media collaborative writing democratic media open publishing participatory media peer review education open education educational resources university admissions open-door academic policy journalism citizen media citizen journalism and wiki journalism open-source journalism economy, production, and development products free and open-source software (foss) free/libre software open-source software open-design movement robotics open gaming open-source architecture open-source hardware economic principles gift economy open innovation open patent open standard sharing economy politics and governance open government open-source governance organizations creative commons free software foundation open architecture network openmod initiative open knowledge international open rights group open source initiative open web foundation pirate party plos sparc activists tim berners-lee alexandra elbakyan cody wilson lawrence lessig peter murray-rust douglas rushkoff richard stallman peter suber peter sunde aaron swartz john wilbanks projects and movements diybio free-culture movement free software movement open science movement open source ecology open-source software movement opencores openwetware sci-hub tools licenses creative commons gpl definition docs free cultural works free software open open source open data indices open educational resources open music model open web movement retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=open_collaboration&oldid=1075872697" categories: collaboration crowdsourcing computer programming information technology free software computational economics public commons hidden categories: articles with short description articles with long short description short description is different from wikidata all articles with unsourced statements articles with unsourced statements from october 2019 articles with unsourced statements from october 2020 navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version languages ????? ?????????? ?? edit links this page was last edited on 8 march 2022, at 04:10 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
