https://www.imdb.com/oscars/?ref_=nv_ev_acd::oscars guide - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) oscars oscars home winners awards central video 2022 oscar winners see who won big at the 2022 oscars. see the winners best moments from the 2022 oscars relive the most surprising wins, surreal speeches, beautifully choreographed performances, and more highlights from the 2022 academy awards, hosted by wanda sykes, amy schumer, and regina hall. watch the video 2022 oscars red carpet: all the best photos the stars step out for hollywood's biggest night, dressed in glamorous gowns and suits! who is your oscars style icon? see the full gallery 2022 oscars: our favorite show photos see the fabulous presenters and gracious winners at this year's oscars. looking for more? check out the full list of winners. see the full gallery the oscars you didn't see didn't get invited to any oscars after-parties? don't worry. live that glamorous life with the best photos from the night's celebrations, and you won't even get a hangover. see more party photos what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see what's in store for this year's oscar nominees, including benedict cumberbatch in a new wes anderson film, and will smith in the i am legend sequel. see the full list portraits from the women in film oscar nominees party check out portraits captured at the 15th annual women in film oscar nominees party, sponsored by imdb and imdbpro. see the full gallery 2022 cinematography | art of the crew from dune to nightmare alley, we take a look at the 2022 oscar contenders for best cinematography. watch the video everything we know about future dc movies & series in 2022 and beyond, dc offers up sequels, spin-offs, and series based on their most iconic comic book characters. we break down everything we know about the future of live-action dc adaptations. watch the video the rise of andrew garfield this episode of our series "no small parts" takes a look at andrew garfield's rise to fame. watch now the history of academy award best picture winners from wings to nomadland, here's a look back at all of the best picture oscar winners in the history of the ceremony. see more best picture winners the rise of kirsten dunst "no small parts" takes a look at oscar-nominee kirsten dunst's early days as a child actress and her meteoric rise to fame. watch now oscars snubs and surprises: imdb fan reactions we asked imdb fans across twitter, instagram, and facebook what they thought of the 2022 oscar nominations. here's what they had to say. see more snubs & surprises unforgettable oscars fashion through the years from the iconic to the eclectic, relive the most memorable moments from the oscars red carpet. see the full gallery follow us on twitter clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
