https://www.imdb.com/title/tt6751668/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_35::parasite (2019) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) parasite original title: gisaengchung 20192019 14a14a 2h 12m imdb rating 8.5/10 730k your rating rate popularity 114 51 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:03 17 videos 99+ photos comedydramathriller greed and class discrimination threaten the newly formed symbiotic relationship between the wealthy park family and the destitute kim clan.greed and class discrimination threaten the newly formed symbiotic relationship between the wealthy park family and the destitute kim clan.greed and class discrimination threaten the newly formed symbiotic relationship between the wealthy park family and the destitute kim clan. imdb rating 8.5/10 730k your rating rate popularity 114 51 director bong joon ho writers bong joon ho(story by) han jin-won(screenplay by) stars kang-ho song sun-kyun lee yeo-jeong cho top credits director bong joon ho writers bong joon ho(story by) han jin-won(screenplay by) stars kang-ho song sun-kyun lee yeo-jeong cho see production, box office & company info 3.4kuser reviews 600critic reviews 96metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #35 won 4 oscars 308 wins & 271 nominations total videos17 trailer 2:03 trailer 2 trailer 2:17 official trailer trailer 1:18 teaser trailer trailer 1:03 parasite trailer 2:17 parasite clip 3:24 bong joon ho makes oscars history clip 0:41 bong joon ho's "parasite" hbo series will be a 'six-hour film' clip 2:49 indie spirit stars suggest indie gems you must watch right now clip 4:30 what bafta, sag, & dga wins predict for the 2020 oscars clip 4:15 oscars 2020 snubs, surprises, & historic firsts clip 1:44 bong joon-ho ? making the film you want clip 5:14 bong joon-ho reveals where he got the idea for 'parasite' photos242 top cast edit kang-ho song ki taekas ki taek sun-kyun lee dong ikas dong ik yeo-jeong cho yeon kyoas yeon kyo choi woo-sik ki wooas ki woo so-dam park ki jungas ki jung (as park so dam) lee jeong-eun moon gwangas moon gwang (as lee jung eun) jang hye-jin chung sookas chung sook (as chang hyae jin) park myeong-hoon geun seas geun se (as park myeong hoon) ji-so jung da hyeas da hye (as jung ziso) hyun-jun jung da songas da song (as jung hyeon jun) keun-rok park driver yoonas driver yoon (as park keun rok) yi-seo jung ceo of pizza placeas ceo of pizza place (as jeung esuh) jae-myeong jo ceo's brother of pizza placeas ceo's brother of pizza place ik-han jung neighboras neighbor (as jung ik han) kyu-baek kim drunk person 1as drunk person 1 hwang in kyung internet cafe staffas internet cafe staff ahn seong-bong street fighting person 1as street fighting person 1 (as ahn seong bong) kim jin hyung street fighting person 2as street fighting person 2 director bong joon ho writers bong joon ho(story by) (screenplay by) han jin-won(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.4 joker watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.5 whiplash watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options 8.2 the wolf of wall street watch options storyline edit the kims - mother and father chung-sook and ki-taek, and their young adult offspring, son ki-woo and daughter ki-jung - are a poor family living in a shabby and cramped half basement apartment in a busy lower working class commercial district of seoul. without even knowing it, they, especially mr. and mrs. kim, literally smell of poverty. often as a collective, they perpetrate minor scams to get by, and even when they have jobs, they do the minimum work required. ki-woo is the one who has dreams of getting out of poverty by one day going to university. despite not having that university education, ki-woo is chosen by his university student friend min, who is leaving to go to school, to take over his tutoring job to park da-hye, who min plans to date once he returns to seoul and she herself is in university. the parks are a wealthy family who for four years have lived in their modernistic house designed by and the former residence of famed architect namgoong. while mr. and mrs. park are all about status, mrs. park has a flighty, simpleminded mentality and temperament, which min tells ki-woo to feel comfortable in lying to her about his education to get the job. in getting the job, ki-woo further learns that mrs. park is looking for an art therapist for the parks' adolescent son, da-song, ki-woo quickly recommending his professional art therapist friend "jessica", really ki-jung who he knows can pull off the scam in being the easiest liar of the four kims. in ki-woo also falling for da-hye, he begins to envision himself in that house, and thus the kims as a collective start a plan for all the kims, like ki-jung using assumed names, to replace existing servants in the parks' employ in orchestrating reasons for them to be fired. the most difficult to get rid of may be moon-gwang, the parks' housekeeper who literally came with the house - she namgoong's housekeeper when he lived there - and thus knows all the little nooks and crannies of it better than the parks themselves. the question then becomes how far the kims can take this scam in their quest to become their version of the parks. ?huggo class differencesfraudsocial satirescamhouse301 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines misplaced familyhood (australia/new zealand/singapore) genres comedy drama thriller certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia the parks' house, said in the film to be designed by a fictional architect named namgoong hyeonja, was a set completely built from scratch. goofs (at around 1h 30 mins) when the kims are sneaking out of the house while the parks are sleeping on the couch, the kim's are barefoot. when seen running home they somehow now have their shoes. if they had left their shoes at the entrance the parks would likely have noticed them. it would be more likely they would have left them in the garage. quotes ki-taek: [to his son] you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. no plan at all. you know why? because life cannot be planned. look around you. did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? but here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. so, there's no need for a plan. you can't go wrong with no plans. we don't need to make a plan for anything. it doesn't matter what will happen next. even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. got it? alternate versions also available in a black-and-white version. instead of opting for a simple digital bleaching, bong joon ho worked with a colorist and cinematographer to make sure each scene retained its texture. connections featured in amanda the jedi show: 'faster than your first time' reviews (joker, jojo rabbit, lucy in the sky and everything else) (2019) soundtracks rodelinda: act 2 - spietati, io vi giurai written by george frideric handel universal music user reviews3.4k review top review 10/10 meritocracy: it's metaphorical in a meritocracy, success and fortune are reserved for those who deserve it--those who develop solid plans according to their talents and abilities and who execute those plans through hard work and determination. anyone can rise to the top, and for some lucky cinderella, plucked from the cinders and gussied up in gowns, the meritocracy represents the heights of perfect egalitarian society: "i started with nothing and ended up with everything i ever desired; you, too, can achieve you dreams, if only you try." the promise of unobstructed sunshine at the top of the mountain becomes justification for bitter competition, backstabbing, deceit, and callousness. you climb the crooked ladder until you make it to the straight one, and then, perhaps, when you at last feel secure, you can afford to be kind and confident and generous. "it's easy to be nice when you're rich," the mother in this film (jang hye-jin) at one point observes. but it's a very long and very crooked ladder, and sometimes the rungs give out beneath your grip, and sometimes they've been dangerously greased by those who climbed before you, and sometimes the ladder itself is simply kicked down--either by those above you or, just as often, by those staring up from the ground below. there are a lot of people trying to climb that one ladder. but in a meritocracy, you can't blame the ladder or the other people trying to climb it. nor can you blame the fact that all the good stuff is kept so many stories up instead of down at the ground where everyone can easily reach it. no, you must blame yourself. you should have tread more carefully. you should have climbed more quickly. you should have used a firmer and more precise grip, anticipated disasters, and known just when to leap. if you fail in a meritocracy, it's all your fault. you should have tried harder. better luck next time. kim ki-woo (choi woo-sik), the young man who is the main character of parasite, several times refers to "metaphors," and the film itself is, of course, a metaphor. on a surface level, viewers are treated to a very thrilling, engaging, well-paced and well-plotted crime story. at all times, however, bubbling up from beneath the slick surface of this genre film, there are deeply personal, meaningful truths that should resonate with almost any viewer. these insights are rarely foregrounded. they are so subtly interwoven, in fact, that if you're like me, you may be completely surprised when the final shots of the film roll and you realize that you are emotionally devastated by the intimate, humanist story you've just witnessed. bong joon-ho's filmmaking is so extraordinary here that he'll make you fully invested in the lives of his characters without you even realizing he's done so. i want to avoid spoilers here, but suffice it to say that parasite is a masterpiece--beautifully lensed, enthrallingly edited, superbly acted, and intimately involving. south korea has a population that is one sixth the size of the united states, and that population is stacked into skyscrapers in an area slightly smaller than the state of kentucky. higher education is widespread, so parents with means try to make their children stand above the pack by hiring them tutors and signing them up for extracurriculars and afterschool programs. i lived in korea once, and the children i taught there were sometimes engaged in learning ten to twelve hours a day, six days a week--public school, english-immersion private school, piano class, soccer team, taekwondo, math camp, chess club, and so on. i routinely worked sixty to seventy hours a week on salary, but at bars i would meet young men my age who were expected to work far more than that, who slept at their desks so that they did not need to pry themselves from work for too long. as the father (song kang-ho) in the film at one point says, this is a country where fifty young men with college degrees apply for a mere security guard job. one can't afford not to struggle. the themes of this story are not just localized to korea, however. they are the story of global capitalism, and the specter of american materialism (and imperialism; note the "indians") looms heavily over the film. meritocracy makes cannibals of us all. it's nice to dream, and sometimes the dreamers who plan and struggle well enough can indeed climb out of the basement and into the sunshine, and how nice an ending it is when they do. but the film also makes it clear that sometimes all that planning and dreaming may be, maybe, just whims and fancy. more often, it seems, our pipe dreams are content to leave us with nothing more than the whiff of spewed sewage. helpful?793 304 nehpetstephen aug 25, 2019 faq13 why weren't there any cameras inside mr. park's house? why did the kim family use english names for themselves when working for the parks? how is parasite a comedy? apart from a couple of lines by the mrs. kim, i didn't find anything comedic. details edit release date may 30, 2019 (south korea) country of origin south korea official sites curzon artificial eye (united kingdom) les bookmakers (france) languages korean english also known as k? sinh tr?ng filming locations jahamun-ro, buam-dong, jongno-gu, seoul, south korea production companies cj entertainment barunson e&a see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $11,400,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $53,369,749 opening weekend us & canada $393,216 oct 13, 2019 gross worldwide $263,020,130 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 12 minutes color color sound mix dolby atmos aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news jimin is releasing his first k-drama ost - here's what to know about "our blues" mar 29popsugar.com ?coda? has changed oscar movies? release strategies forever mar 29indiewire contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of gisaengchung (2019) in australia? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
