https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0054215/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_32::psycho (1960) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) psycho 19601960 18a18a 1h 49m imdb rating 8.5/10 649k your rating rate popularity 662 9 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:21 6 videos 99+ photos horrormysterythriller a phoenix secretary embezzles $40,000 from her employer's client, goes on the run, and checks into a remote motel run by a young man under the domination of his mother.a phoenix secretary embezzles $40,000 from her employer's client, goes on the run, and checks into a remote motel run by a young man under the domination of his mother.a phoenix secretary embezzles $40,000 from her employer's client, goes on the run, and checks into a remote motel run by a young man under the domination of his mother. imdb rating 8.5/10 649k your rating rate popularity 662 9 director alfred hitchcock writers joseph stefano(screenplay by) robert bloch(based on the novel by) stars anthony perkins janet leigh vera miles top credits director alfred hitchcock writers joseph stefano(screenplay by) robert bloch(based on the novel by) stars anthony perkins janet leigh vera miles see production, box office & company info 1.4kuser reviews 252critic reviews 97metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #32 nominated for 4 oscars 7 wins & 14 nominations total videos6 trailer 1:21 psycho clip 1:16 'psycho' | anniversary mashup clip 7:00 bloody beginnings of the summer camp slasher clip 2:27 a guide to the films of alfred hitchcock interview 3:25 'the new mutants' cast reveal characters & film inspirations video 1:51 top 5 most terrifying performances according to alex wolff photos291 top cast edit anthony perkins norman batesas norman bates janet leigh marion craneas marion crane vera miles lila craneas lila crane john gavin sam loomisas sam loomis martin balsam det. milton arbogastas det. milton arbogast john mcintire sheriff al chambersas sheriff al chambers simon oakland dr. fred richmanas dr. fred richman frank albertson tom cassidyas tom cassidy patricia hitchcock carolineas caroline (as pat hitchcock) vaughn taylor george loweryas george lowery lurene tuttle mrs. chambersas mrs. chambers john anderson california charlieas california charlie mort mills highway patrol officeras highway patrol officer fletcher allen policeman on stepsas policeman on steps (uncredited) walter bacon church memberas church member (uncredited) prudence beers extraas extra (uncredited) kit carson extraas extra (uncredited) francis de sales deputy district attorney alan deatsas deputy district attorney alan deats (uncredited) director alfred hitchcock writers joseph stefano(screenplay by) robert bloch(based on the novel by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro 'psycho' scenes: watch the mashup 'psycho' scenes: watch the mashup take a look iconic moments from alfred hitchcock's film with anthony perkins, janet leigh, and vera miles. watch the video 1:16 more like this 8.5 rear window watch options 8.3 vertigo watch options 8.4 the shining watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 6.5 psycho ii watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.5 casablanca watch options 5.4 psycho iii watch options 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 4.6 psycho watch options 8.6 life is beautiful watch options storyline edit phoenix office worker marion crane is fed up with the way life has treated her. she has to meet her lover sam in lunch breaks, and they cannot get married because sam has to give most of his money away in alimony. one friday, marion is trusted to bank forty thousand dollars by her employer. seeing the opportunity to take the money and start a new life, marion leaves town and heads towards sam's california store. tired after the long drive and caught in a storm, she gets off the main highway and pulls into the bates motel. the motel is managed by a quiet young man called norman who seems to be dominated by his mother. ?col needham <col@imdb.com> motelshowermoneymaniacstabbed with a knife323 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the picture you must see from the beginning... or not at all!... for no one will be seated after the start of... alfred hitchcock's greatest shocker psycho. genres horror mystery thriller certificate 18a parents guide did you know edit trivia director sir alfred hitchcock was so pleased with the score written by bernard herrmann that he doubled the composer's salary to $34,501. hitchcock later said, "thirty-three percent of the effect of psycho was due to the music." goofs when lila approaches mother in the fruit cellar, mrs. bates is seated in a four-legged chair. after lila touches the corpse, it slowly spins around as if it's sitting on a swiveling chair. the effect was achieved by a prop man lying on his back rotating a camera head with wheels underneath mother. quotes [last lines] norma bates: [voiceover in police custody, as norman is thinking] it's sad, when a mother has to speak the words that condemn her own son. but i couldn't allow them to believe that i would commit murder. they'll put him away now, as i should have years ago. he was always bad, and in the end he intended to tell them i killed those girls and that man... as if i could do anything but just sit and stare, like one of his stuffed birds. they know i can't move a finger, and i won't. i'll just sit here and be quiet, just in case they do... suspect me. they're probably watching me. well, let them. let them see what kind of a person i am. i'm not even going to swat that fly. i hope they are watching... they'll see. they'll see and they'll know, and they'll say, "why, she wouldn't even harm a fly..." crazy credits the paramount logo is divided by bars, to match the opening credits. alternate versions on the universal dvd, norman can be heard (not seen) screaming "i'm norma bates!" as sam loomis rushes in to stop him from murdering lila. the scream is not present in at least some release prints. connections edited into psycho ii (1983) user reviews1.4k review top review the best in its time this movie is the best movie by alfred hitchcock ever. that is hard to do to. because he did all the good scary movies back then such as rear window and the birds. i loved it i own the movie and parts 2 and 3 i like the shower scene. another good thing about this movie was that it had a good back ground the motel off the main highway and the creepy old house on the hill behind the motel this was scary for its time but not now. however it still is a real good movie a classic. the remake was ok but it can't match to this one. helpful?11 0 horrorkid87 nov 18, 2000 faq18 what is 'psycho' about? is "psycho" based on a book? why does marion steal the money? details edit release date august 17, 1960 (canada) country of origin united states official site facebook language english also known as psychose filming locations psycho house, backlot, universal studios - 100 universal city plaza, universal city, california, usa production company shamley productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $806,947 (estimated) gross us & canada $32,000,000 gross worldwide $32,041,931 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 49 minutes color black and white sound mix dolby digital aspect ratio 1.37 : 1(original & negative ratio, open matte) related news the last-minute change that saved alfred hitchcock's psycho mar 25slash film alfred hitchcock accidentally created one of the scariest houses in horror mar 21slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of psycho (1960) in spain? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
