https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110912/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_8::pulp fiction (1994) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) pulp fiction 19941994 16+16+ 2h 34m imdb rating 8.9/10 2m your rating rate popularity 111 20 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:21 24 videos 99+ photos crimedrama the lives of two mob hitmen, a boxer, a gangster and his wife, and a pair of diner bandits intertwine in four tales of violence and redemption.the lives of two mob hitmen, a boxer, a gangster and his wife, and a pair of diner bandits intertwine in four tales of violence and redemption.the lives of two mob hitmen, a boxer, a gangster and his wife, and a pair of diner bandits intertwine in four tales of violence and redemption. imdb rating 8.9/10 2m your rating rate popularity 111 20 director quentin tarantino writers quentin tarantino(stories by) roger avary(stories by) stars john travolta uma thurman samuel l. jackson top credits director quentin tarantino writers quentin tarantino(stories by) roger avary(stories by) stars john travolta uma thurman samuel l. jackson see production, box office & company info 3.4kuser reviews 293critic reviews 94metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #8 won 1 oscar 70 wins & 75 nominations total videos24 trailer 1:21 official trailer clip 3:45 movie scavenger hunt: can you find these mcu easter eggs? clip 2:44 a guide to the films of quentin tarantino clip 3:20 who are the "hunters"? clip 1:32 pulp fiction | anniversary mashup clip 5:09 how 'once upon a time ... in hollywood' connects the tarantinoverse clip 3:28 what mindy kaling is watching clip 3:13 25 years after 'pulp fiction', tarantino delivers a 'hollywood' masterwork clip 3:28 moran atias picks her "seinfeld" spirt animal clip 1:58 chris pratt and elizabeth banks give movies lego remakes clip 1:48 will ferrell and john c. reilly solve movie mysteries featurette 0:34 "watching tarantino with tarantino" photos382 top cast edit john travolta vincent vegaas vincent vega uma thurman mia wallaceas mia wallace samuel l. jackson jules winnfieldas jules winnfield bruce willis butch coolidgeas butch coolidge tim roth pumpkinas pumpkin amanda plummer honey bunnyas honey bunny laura lovelace waitressas waitress phil lamarr marvinas marvin frank whaley brettas brett burr steers rogeras roger ving rhames marsellus wallaceas marsellus wallace paul calderon paulas paul bronagh gallagher trudias trudi rosanna arquette jodyas jody eric stoltz lanceas lance jerome patrick hoban ed sullivanas ed sullivan michael gilden phillip morris pageas phillip morris page gary shorelle ricky nelsonas ricky nelson director quentin tarantino writers quentin tarantino(stories by) roger avary(stories by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro samuel l. jackson through the years samuel l. jackson through the years take a look back at samuel l. jackson's movie career in photos. see more samuel more like this 8.8 fight club watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.3 inglourious basterds watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.3 reservoir dogs watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 9.2 the godfather watch options storyline edit jules winnfield (samuel l. jackson) and vincent vega (john travolta) are two hit men who are out to retrieve a suitcase stolen from their employer, mob boss marsellus wallace (ving rhames). wallace has also asked vincent to take his wife mia (uma thurman) out a few days later when wallace himself will be out of town. butch coolidge (bruce willis) is an aging boxer who is paid by wallace to lose his fight. the lives of these seemingly unrelated people are woven together comprising of a series of funny, bizarre and uncalled-for incidents. ?soumitra nonlinear timelineoverdosedrug usedrug overdosedrug dealing456 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines girls like me don't make invitations like this to just anyone! genres crime drama certificate 16+ parents guide did you know edit trivia mr. blonde, a.k.a. vic vega, played by michael madsen in reservoir dogs (1992), is the brother of vincent vega. quentin tarantino even had a spin-off film in development, titled "double v vega", which was a prequel to both movies. this film was scrapped, because both actors were too old to play younger versions of themselves. goofs (at around 1h 50 mins) in the apartment miracle scene where jules and vincent are about to be shot at by the kid in coming out of the adjoining room, there are bullet holes already clearly visible in the wall behind them. quotes mia: don't you hate that? vincent: what? mia: uncomfortable silences. why do we feel it's necessary to yak about bullshit in order to be comfortable? vincent: i don't know. that's a good question. mia: that's when you know you've found somebody special. when you can just shut the fuck up for a minute and comfortably enjoy the silence. crazy credits the coffee shop manager in the robbery scene at the end is credited as "coffee shop" because he is cut off as he speaks: "i am not a hero, i'm just a coffee shop--" alternate versions the canadian dvd version of the film includes the two alternate scenes mentioned above, plus a few additional ones. a longer scene of vincent vega purchasing heroin at lance (eric stoltz)'s house, complaining about how rude people are. eric's character complains about how he had asked for directions one time and was given incorrect instructions. another additional scene takes place in esmarelda's cab, where butch does a lengthier explanation of how he feels about killing the man in the boxing ring. the other scene included on this dvd takes place at the auto parts yard, where winston wolf and the yard owner's daughter flirt and make plans for breakfast. all of the deleted scenes are shown in a separate section of the dvd, introduced by tarantino, and are not included in the actual film. connections edited into you're still not fooling anybody (1997) soundtracks misirlou written by fred wise, milton leeds, bob russell, and nicholas roubanis performed by dick dale & his del-tones courtesy of rhino records user reviews3.4k review top review 10/10 simply the best to put this in context, i am 34 years old and i have to say that this is the best film i have seen without doubt and i don't expect it will be beaten as far as i am concerned. obviously times move on, and i acknowledge that due to its violence and one particularly uncomfortable scene this film is not for everyone, but i still remember watching it for the first time, and it blew me away. anyone who watches it now has to remember that it actually changed the history of cinema. in context- it followed a decade or more of action films that always ended with a chase sequence where the hero saved the day - you could have written those films yourself. pulp had you gripped and credited the audience with intelligence. there is not a line of wasted dialogue and the movie incorporates a number of complexities that are not immediately obvious. it also resurrected the career of grease icon john travolta and highlighted the acting talent of samuel l jackson. there are many films now that are edited out of sequence and have multiple plots etc but this is the one they all want to be, or all want to beat, but never will. helpful?1k 401 wolvesrug jan 9, 2005 faq32 why is mia wallace (uma thurman) the only one on the poster ? why does jules call pumpkin "ringo"? why did brett steal the briefcase? details edit release date october 14, 1994 (canada) country of origin united states official sites official facebook official site languages english spanish french also known as fiction pulpeuse filming locations 1435 flower street, glendale, california, usa production companies miramax a band apart jersey films see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $8,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $107,928,762 opening weekend us & canada $9,311,882 oct 16, 1994 gross worldwide $213,928,762 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 34 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news bruce willis is stepping away from acting after aphasia diagnosis mar 30popsugar.com bruce willis lauded by hollywood after news of exit from acting: ?forever a legend? mar 30the wrap contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
