https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reference_work::reference work - wikipedia reference work from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search publication to which one can refer for confirmed facts this article is about a kind of publication. for the work that librarians perform at a library reference desk, see library reference desk. the brockhaus enzyklop?die, the best-known traditional reference book in german-speaking countries the lexikon des mittelalters, a specialised german encyclopedia encyclop?dia britannica, 15th edition: volumes of the propedia (green), micropedia (red), macropedia (black), and 2-volume index (blue) a reference work is a work, such as a book or periodical (or their electronic equivalents), to which one can refer for information.[1] the information is intended to be found quickly when needed. such works are usually referred to for particular pieces of information, rather than read beginning to end. the writing style used in these works is informative; the authors avoid use of the first person, and emphasize facts. indices are a common navigation feature in many types of reference works. many reference works are compiled by a team of contributors whose work is coordinated by one or more editors, rather than by an individual author. updated editions are usually published as needed, in some cases annually (whitaker's almanack, who's who). reference works include encyclopedias, almanacs, atlases, bibliographies, biographical sources, catalogs such as library catalogs and art catalogs, concordances, dictionaries, directories such as business directories and telephone directories, discographies, filmographies, gazetteers, glossaries, handbooks, indices such as bibliographic indices and citation indices, manuals, research guides, thesauruses, and yearbooks.[2] many reference works are available in electronic form and can be obtained as reference software, cd-roms, dvds, or online through the internet. wikipedia, an online encyclopedia, is both the largest and the most-read reference work in history.[3] contents 1 reference book 2 types of reference work 3 electronic resources 4 references 5 further reading reference book[edit] in contrast to books that are loaned, a reference book or reference-only book in a library is one that may only be used in the library and may not be borrowed from the library. many such books are reference works (in the first sense), which are, usually, used briefly or photocopied from, and therefore, do not need to be borrowed.[citation needed] keeping reference books in the library assures that they will always be available for use on demand. some reference-only books are too valuable to permit borrowers to take them out. reference-only items may be shelved in a reference collection located separately from circulating items. some libraries consist entirely, or to a large extent, of books which may not be borrowed. types of reference work[edit] these are the main types and categories of reference work: abstracting journal ? a published summary of articles, theses, reviews, conference proceedings etc. arranged systematically almanac ? an annual publication listing a set of current, general or specific, information about one or multiple subjects annals ? concise historical record in which events are arranged chronologically atlas ? a collection of maps traditionally been bound into book form bibliography ? a systematic list of books and other works such as journal articles on a given subject or which satisfy particular criteria biographical dictionary ? an encyclopedic dictionary limited to biographical information books of quotations ? collections of quotations satisfying particular criteria, arranged systematically chronicle/chronology ? a historical account of events arranged in chronological order compendium ? a concise collection of information pertaining to a body of knowledge concordance ? an alphabetical list of the principal words used in a book or body of work dictionary ? a list of words from one or more languages, systematically arranged and giving meanings etymologies etc. digest ? a summary of information on a particular subject directory ? a systematically arranged list of names, addresses, products, etc. business directory telephone directory web directory encyclopaedia ? a compendium providing summaries of knowledge either from all branches or from a particular field or discipline gazetteer ? a geographical dictionary or directory used to provide systematic access to a map or atlas glossary ? an alphabetical list of terms in a particular domain of knowledge with the definitions for those terms handbook ? a small or portable book intended to provide ready reference index ? a publication giving systematic access to a body of knowledge lexicon ? a synonym for a dictionary or encyclopaedic dictionary list ? a published enumeration of a set of items manual ? a handbook providing instructions in the use of a particular product phrase book ? a collection of ready-made phrases, arranged systematically, usually for a foreign language together with a translation ready reckoner ? a printed book or table containing pre-calculated values thematic catalogue ? an index used to identify musical compositions through the citation of the opening notes thesaurus ? a reference work for finding synonyms and sometimes antonyms of words timetable ? a published list of schedules giving times for transportation or other events yearbook ? a compendium containing events relating to a specific year electronic resources[edit] an electronic resource is a computer program or data that is stored electronically, which is usually found on a computer, including information that is available on the internet.[4] libraries offer numerous types of electronic resources including electronic texts such as electronic books and electronic journals, bibliographic databases, institutional repositories, websites, and software applications.[4] references[edit] ^ "reference". the merriam-webster.com dictionary. merriam-webster inc. retrieved 29 november 2019. ^ reitz, joan m. (10 january 2013). "reference book". online dictionary for library and information science. retrieved 29 november 2019. ^ "wikipedia is 20, and its reputation has never been higher". the economist. 9 january 2021. retrieved 31 may 2021. ^ a b reitz, joan m. (10 january 2013). "electronic resource". online dictionary for library and information science. retrieved 29 november 2019. further reading[edit] general higgens, gavin, ed. (1984). printed reference material. handbooks on library practice (2nd revised ed.). london: library association. isbn 978-0853659952. katz, william a. (2001). introduction to reference work, volume 1: basic information services (8th ed.). new york: mcgraw-hill. isbn 978-0072441079. katz, william a. (2001). introduction to reference work, volume 2: reference services and reference processes (8th ed.). new york: mcgraw-hill. isbn 978-0072441437. lynch, jack (2016). you could look it up: the reference shelf from ancient babylon to wikipedia. new york: bloomsbury press. isbn 978-0802777522. guides to reference works chenoweth, juneal m., ed. (24 june 2019). american reference books annual. santa barbara, california: libraries unlimited. isbn 978-1-4408-6913-6. published annually beginning in 1970. heeks, peggy (1968). books of reference for school libraries: an annotated list (2nd ed.). london: library association. asin b0006c36oo. lester, ray, ed. (2005). new walford guide to reference resources, volume 1: science, technology, and medicine. new york: neal-schuman publishers. isbn 978-1856044950. lester, ray; clinch, peter; dawson, heather; edwards, helen; tarrant, susan, eds. (2007). new walford guide to reference resources, volume 2: social sciences. london: facet publishing. isbn 978-1856044981. lester, ray, ed. (2015). new walford guide to reference resources, volume 3: arts, humanities, and general reference. london: facet publishing. isbn 978-1856044998. malcl?s, louise no?lle (1950). les sources du travail bibliographique (in french). geneva: librairie droz. sheehy, eugene p. (1976). guide to reference books (9th ed.). chicago: american library association. isbn 978-0838902059. originally compiled by alice b. kroeger for first two editions beginning in 1902. subsequently, edited by isadore gilbert mudge (3rd through 6th editions) and constance mabel winchell (7th and 8th editions). totok, wilhelm; weitzel, rolf (1984?1985). handbuch der bibliographischen nachschlagewerke (in german) (6th ed.). frankfurt am main: klostermann. first published in 1954. walford, a. j., ed. (1980). walford's guide to reference material, volume 1: science and technology (4th ed.). london: library association. isbn 9780853656111. walford, a. j.; taylor, l. j., eds. (1987). walford's guide to reference material, volume 2: generalia, language and literature, the arts (4th ed.). london: library association. walford, a. j., ed. (1981). walford's concise guide to reference material. london: library association. (an abridgement of walford's guide) v t e lexicography types of reference works dictionary glossary lexicon phrase book thesaurus types of dictionaries advanced learner's anagram bilingual biographical conceptual crossword defining vocabulary electronic encyclopedic etymological explanatory historical idiom language-for-specific-purposes machine-readable medical monolingual learner's multi-field picture reverse rhyming rime single-field specialized spelling dictionary sub-field visual other international scientific vocabulary list of lexicographers list of online dictionaries linguistics portal authority control national libraries spain france (data) germany israel united states japan other national archives (us) retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=reference_work&oldid=1078671651" categories: reference works hidden categories: articles with short description short description matches wikidata all articles with unsourced statements articles with unsourced statements from january 2022 cs1 french-language sources (fr) cs1 german-language sources (de) articles with bne identifiers articles with bnf identifiers articles with gnd identifiers articles with j9u identifiers articles with lccn identifiers articles with ndl identifiers articles with nara identifiers use dmy dates from april 2017 navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons languages afrikaans anar?kiel? ??????? ????????? ?????????? catal? deutsch eesti espa?ol esperanto euskara ????? fran?ais ??? hrvatski bahasa indonesia italiano ????? ??????? lietuvi? ?????????? bahasa melayu nederlands ??? norsk bokm?l norsk nynorsk plattd??tsch portugu?s ??????? sloven?ina suomi svenska ??? t?rk?e ?????????? ???? ?? edit links this page was last edited on 22 march 2022, at 19:02 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
