https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0108052/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_6::schindler's list (1993) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) schindler's list 19931993 14a14a 3h 15m imdb rating 9.0/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 157 16 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:38 5 videos 99+ photos biographydramahistory in german-occupied poland during world war ii, industrialist oskar schindler gradually becomes concerned for his jewish workforce after witnessing their persecution by the nazis.in german-occupied poland during world war ii, industrialist oskar schindler gradually becomes concerned for his jewish workforce after witnessing their persecution by the nazis.in german-occupied poland during world war ii, industrialist oskar schindler gradually becomes concerned for his jewish workforce after witnessing their persecution by the nazis. imdb rating 9.0/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 157 16 director steven spielberg writers thomas keneally(book) steven zaillian(screenplay) stars liam neeson ralph fiennes ben kingsley top credits director steven spielberg writers thomas keneally(book) steven zaillian(screenplay) stars liam neeson ralph fiennes ben kingsley see production, box office & company info 2.1kuser reviews 169critic reviews 94metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #6 won 7 oscars 91 wins & 49 nominations total videos5 trailer 2:38 25th anniversary trailer trailer 2:18 schindler's list clip 2:31 a guide to the films of steven spielberg video 4:23 the evolution of steven spielberg video 1:55 'schindler's list' | 25th anniversary mashup photos222 top cast edit liam neeson oskar schindleras oskar schindler ralph fiennes amon goethas amon goeth ben kingsley itzhak sternas itzhak stern caroline goodall emilie schindleras emilie schindler jonathan sagall poldek pfefferbergas poldek pfefferberg (as jonathan sagalle) embeth davidtz helen hirschas helen hirsch malgorzata gebel wiktoria klonowskaas wiktoria klonowska (as malgoscha gebel) shmuel levy wilek chilowiczas wilek chilowicz (as shmulik levy) mark ivanir marcel goldbergas marcel goldberg b?atrice macola ingridas ingrid (as beatrice macola) andrzej seweryn julian scherneras julian scherner friedrich von thun rolf czurdaas rolf czurda (as friedrich von thun) krzysztof luft herman toffelas herman toffel harry nehring leo johnas leo john norbert weisser albert hujaras albert hujar adi nitzan mila pfefferbergas mila pfefferberg michael schneider juda dresneras juda dresner miri fabian chaja dresneras chaja dresner director steven spielberg writers thomas keneally(book) steven zaillian(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 9.0 the godfather: part ii watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 9.2 the godfather watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options storyline edit oskar schindler is a vain and greedy german businessman who becomes an unlikely humanitarian amid the barbaric german nazi reign when he feels compelled to turn his factory into a refuge for jews. based on the true story of oskar schindler who managed to save about 1100 jews from being gassed at the auschwitz concentration camp, it is a testament to the good in all of us. ?harald mayr <marvin@bike.augusta.de> accountantchampagnevillasoapwomanizer248 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines whoever saves one life, saves the world entire. genres biography drama history certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia to gather costumes for 20,000 extras, the costume designer took out advertisements seeking clothes. as economic conditions were poor in poland, many people were eager to sell clothing they still owned from the 1930s and 1940s. goofs when schindler and stern negotiate with the jewish investors outside the ghetto, steven spielberg is reflected on the rear window (his jacket is blowing in the wind). quotes oskar schindler: power is when we have every justification to kill, and we don't. amon goeth: you think that's power? oskar schindler: that's what the emperor said. a man steals something, he's brought in before the emperor, he throws himself down on the ground. he begs for his life, he knows he's going to die. and the emperor... pardons him. this worthless man, he lets him go. amon goeth: i think you are drunk. oskar schindler: that's power, amon. that is power. crazy credits the theatrical version juxtaposed images from the film of the actors portraying certain identified "schindler jews" as each actual person placed a stone on schindler's grave. the vhs version does not use this device, showing only the actual persons, credited by name. alternate versions the film, as shown in most countries, had the song "yerushalayim shel zahav" - jerusalem of gold - at the end. when the film was shown in israel, audiences laughed at this, as this song was written after the 1967 war as a pop song! they then re-dubbed a song "eli eli" which was written by hannah sennesh during wwii over the end which was more appropriate. connections edited into 365 days, also known as a year (2019) soundtracks mamatschi (mommy, buy me a pony) written by oskar schima and franz xaver kappus (as f.x. kappus) performed by mimi thoma courtesy of the rca records label of bmg music user reviews2.1k review top review 10/10 bring me the heads of hitler, himmler, eichmann n mengele. schindler's list is undoubtedly the best holocaust film ever made. there just isn't anything like this film. various other films have tried to show the true horrors of the holocaust, but none of them succeeded the way that schindler's list did. schindler's list is a difficult film to watch. when you see the true atrocities of the holocaust, your jaw drops. when you see the pain that all of the innocent people were going through, the only thing you can do is cry. the true goal of all holocaust films is to make you feel sorrowful, and schindler's list did that to me. if you want to see the best depiction of the holocaust, make your way towards schindler's list. me n my kids cried during the pit scene. helpful?296 67 fella_shibby sep 9, 2013 faq10 why is the little girl in red? why was this film shot in black and white? who are the people at the end and why are they putting stones on the grave? details edit release date december 25, 1993 (canada) country of origin united states official sites official facebook universal pictures home entertainment (united states) languages english hebrew german polish latin also known as la liste de schindler filming locations auschwitz-birkenau concentration camp, oswiecim, malopolskie, poland production companies universal pictures amblin entertainment see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $22,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $96,898,818 opening weekend us & canada $656,636 dec 19, 1993 gross worldwide $322,161,245 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 3 hours 15 minutes color black and white color sound mix dts dts-stereo related news ?coda? has an army of detractors, but it?s a best picture winner with a legacy (column) mar 28variety film + tv jane campion wins best directing oscar for ?the power of the dog?: ?it?s a lifetime honor? mar 28variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
