https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0056058/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_47::seppuku (1962) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) seppuku 19621962 pgpg 2h 13m imdb rating 8.6/10 53k your rating rate popularity 3,247 101 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics actiondramamystery when a ronin requesting seppuku at a feudal lord's palace is told of the brutal suicide of another ronin who previously visited, he reveals how their pasts are intertwined - and in doing so ... read allwhen a ronin requesting seppuku at a feudal lord's palace is told of the brutal suicide of another ronin who previously visited, he reveals how their pasts are intertwined - and in doing so challenges the clan's integrity.when a ronin requesting seppuku at a feudal lord's palace is told of the brutal suicide of another ronin who previously visited, he reveals how their pasts are intertwined - and in doing so challenges the clan's integrity. imdb rating 8.6/10 53k your rating rate popularity 3,247 101 director masaki kobayashi writers yasuhiko takiguchi(novel "ibun r?nin ki") shinobu hashimoto(screenplay) stars tatsuya nakadai akira ishihama shima iwashita top credits director masaki kobayashi writers yasuhiko takiguchi(novel "ibun r?nin ki") shinobu hashimoto(screenplay) stars tatsuya nakadai akira ishihama shima iwashita see production, box office & company info 288user reviews 78critic reviews 85metascore see production, box office & company info see more at imdbpro top rated movie #47 awards 9 wins & 3 nominations photos55 top cast edit tatsuya nakadai hanshiro tsugumoas hanshiro tsugumo akira ishihama motome chijiiwaas motome chijiiwa shima iwashita miho tsugumoas miho tsugumo tetsur? tanba hikokuro omodakaas hikokuro omodaka masao mishima tango inabaas tango inaba ichir? nakatani hayato yazakias hayato yazaki kei sat? masakazuas masakazu yoshio inaba jinai chijiiwaas jinai chijiiwa hisashi igawa retaineras retainer t?ru takeuchi retaineras retainer yoshir? aoki umenosuke kawabeas umenosuke kawabe tatsuo matsumura seibeias seibei akiji kobayashi ii clan retaineras ii clan retainer k?ichi hayashi ry?tar? gomi generalas general j? azumi ichiro shimmenas ichiro shimmen nakajir? tomita shichisabur? amatsu retaineras retainer director masaki kobayashi writers yasuhiko takiguchi(novel "ibun r?nin ki") shinobu hashimoto(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.7 seven samurai watch options 8.4 high and low watch options 8.2 yojimbo watch options 8.5 modern times watch options 8.5 city lights watch options 8.5 once upon a time in the west watch options 8.5 grave of the fireflies watch options 8.3 ikiru watch options 8.4 paths of glory watch options 8.2 rashomon watch options 8.2 ran watch options 8.4 witness for the prosecution watch options storyline edit peace in 17th-century japan causes the shogunate's breakup of warrior clans, throwing thousands of samurai out of work and into poverty. an honorable end to such fate under the samurai code is ritual suicide, or hara-kiri (self-inflicted disembowelment). an elder warrior, hanshiro tsugumo (tatsuya nakadai) seeks admittance to the house of a feudal lord to commit the act. there, he learns of the fate of his son-in-law, a young samurai who sought work at the house but was instead barbarically forced to commit traditional hara-kiri in an excruciating manner with a dull bamboo blade. in flashbacks the samurai tells the tragic story of his son-in-law, and how he was forced to sell his real sword to support his sick wife and child. tsugumo thus sets in motion a tense showdown of revenge against the house. ?kevin rayburn <kprayb01@homer.louisville.edu> samuraisuicidepovertyrevengeseppuku58 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the world has never understood why the japanese prefer death to dishonor! this samurai picture provides the answer!! genres action drama mystery certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia while filming, tatsuya nakadai was afraid during most of the sword and spear fighting scenes because real swords were being used, a practice now forbidden in japanese films. his concern was not alleviated even though professional swordsmen were employed during the choreographed swordplay. goofs after motome's seppuku, when omodaka steps forward and chops motome's head off (supposedly), he visibly stops his swing before striking motome's neck (naturally, since real swords were used). quotes hanshiro tsugumo: what befalls others today, may be your own fate tomorrow. connections featured in through the mist (2009) user reviews288 review top review 10/10 does to the samurai genre what wild bunch did to the western! having seen this film the mind becomes clouded with the innumerable things to say about it. only praise comes to mind. kobayashi has crafted the great samurai film for the rebel generation and he mixes a deftly handled criticism of authoritarian hypocrisy with a very touching piece of human drama. the plot is deceptively simple: an old samurai (touchingly portrayed by tatsuya nakadai of "ran", "kagemusha" and "sword of doom") arrives at a clan castle to commit seppuku in their yard, and then tells his tale, seemingly trying to gain time at first. what seems to be the rambling of an old man soon turns out to be a grieving account of how this man (and, more significantly, his loved ones) was wronged by the clan. then comes the violent revenge (this is where you think "wild bunch with katanas", though they do up the ante toward the end with guns...). kobayashi's direction is masterful, keeping an unbearable suspense during the mostly talky film, handling the touching scenes with care and maturity and giving us a sweeping fight to top all that. the 133 minutes running time never feels half that long! at the heart of it all though, is nakadai, who, despite an excellent cv, delivers his greatest performance ever. his tsugumo evokes a wounded panther, grieving an grieving until it gives in to fury. nakadai's performance alone marks the film as essential viewing. if you're open to samurai flicks, this will rank among the finest films you've ever seen. helpful?45 9 ottovonb oct 7, 2005 details edit release date 1963 (canada) country of origin japan language japanese also known as harakiri filming locations kyoto, kyoto, japan production company shochiku see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit gross worldwide $15,222 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 13 minutes color black and white sound mix mono aspect ratio 2.35 : 1 related news the human condition jun 29trailers from hell shochiku celebrates centenary with classics at filmart and the hkiff mar 16variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the hindi language plot outline for seppuku (1962)? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
