https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0047478/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_20::seven samurai (1954) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) seven samurai original title: shichinin no samurai 19541954 pgpg 3h 27m imdb rating 8.7/10 337k your rating rate popularity 1,350 56 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer3:59 1 video 99+ photos actiondrama a poor village under attack by bandits recruits seven unemployed samurai to help them defend themselves.a poor village under attack by bandits recruits seven unemployed samurai to help them defend themselves.a poor village under attack by bandits recruits seven unemployed samurai to help them defend themselves. imdb rating 8.7/10 337k your rating rate popularity 1,350 56 director akira kurosawa writers akira kurosawa(screenplay by) shinobu hashimoto(screenplay by) hideo oguni(screenplay by) stars toshir? mifune takashi shimura keiko tsushima top credits director akira kurosawa writers akira kurosawa(screenplay by) shinobu hashimoto(screenplay by) hideo oguni(screenplay by) stars toshir? mifune takashi shimura keiko tsushima see production, box office & company info 793user reviews 127critic reviews 98metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #20 nominated for 2 oscars 5 wins & 8 nominations total videos1 trailer 3:59 trailer photos108 top cast edit toshir? mifune kikuchiyoas kikuchiyo takashi shimura kambei shimadaas kambei shimada keiko tsushima shinoas shino yukiko shimazaki wifeas wife kamatari fujiwara farmer manzoas farmer manzo daisuke kat? shichirojias shichiroji isao kimura katsushiroas katsushiro (as ko kimura) minoru chiaki heihachias heihachi seiji miyaguchi kyuzoas kyuzo yoshio kosugi farmer mosukeas farmer mosuke bokuzen hidari farmer yoheias farmer yohei yoshio inaba gorobei katayamaas gorobei katayama yoshio tsuchiya farmer rikichias farmer rikichi kokuten k?d? old man gisakuas old man gisaku (as kuninori todo) eijir? t?no thiefas thief kichijir? ueda bandit scoutas bandit scout jun tatara coolie aas coolie a atsushi watanabe bun selleras bun seller director akira kurosawa writers akira kurosawa(screenplay by) shinobu hashimoto(screenplay by) hideo oguni(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 seppuku 8.8 the good, the bad and the ugly watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.6 city of god watch options 8.2 yojimbo watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 8.5 psycho watch options 8.2 rashomon watch options 8.5 modern times watch options 8.5 once upon a time in the west watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.2 ran watch options storyline edit a veteran samurai, who has fallen on hard times, answers a village's request for protection from bandits. he gathers 6 other samurai to help him, and they teach the townspeople how to defend themselves, and they supply the samurai with three small meals a day. the film culminates in a giant battle when 40 bandits attack the village. ?colin tinto <cst@imdb.com> samurai16th centurybattlejapanepic192 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines will take its place with the seven greatest films of all time! genres action drama certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia akira kurosawa's original idea for the film was to make it about a day in the life of a samurai, beginning with him rising from bed, eat breakfast, go to his master's castle and ending with him making some mistake that required him to go home and kill himself to save face. despite a good deal of research, he did not feel he had enough solid factual information to make the movie. he then pitched the idea of a film that would cover a series of five samurai battles, based on the lives of famous japanese swordsmen. hashimoto went off to write that script, but kurosawa ultimately scrapped that idea as well, worrying that a film that was just "a series of climaxes" wouldn't work. then, producer s?jir? motoki found, through historical research, that samurai in the "warring states" period of japanese history would often volunteer to stand guard at peasant villages overnight in exchange for food and lodging. kurosawa then came across an anecdote about a village hiring samurai to protect them and decided to use that idea. kurosawa wrote a complete dossier for each character with a speaking role. in it were details about what they wore, their favourite foods, their past history, their speaking habits, their reaction to battle and every other detail he could think of about them. no other japanese director had ever done this before. goofs in the closing moments of the final battle, the bandits fire two musket shots only seconds apart. it is clear from the plot that at that point they possess only one musket. the black powder muskets of the age required much more time to reload. this error was pointed out in the commentary of the deluxe dvd edition. quotes kikuchiyo: what do you think of farmers? you think they're saints? hah! they're foxy beasts! they say, "we've got no rice, we've no wheat. we've got nothing!" but they have! they have everything! dig under the floors! or search the barns! you'll find plenty! beans, salt, rice, sake! look in the valleys, they've got hidden warehouses! they pose as saints but are full of lies! if they smell a battle, they hunt the defeated! they're nothing but stingy, greedy, blubbering, foxy, and mean! god damn it all! [he hurls a handful of arrows into the wall] kikuchiyo: but then who made them such beasts? you did! you samurai did it! you burn their villages! destroy their farms! steal their food! force them to labour! take their women! and kill them if they resist! so what should farmers do? [kikuchiyo sinks to his knees, and begins to sob uncontrollably] kikuchiyo: damn... damn... damn... damn... [kambei unfolds his arms and looks down at the palms of his hands] kambei shimada: [quietly, after a long pause] you were the son of a farmer, weren't you? alternate versions the film's original japanese release version runs 207 minutes, plus intermission, which includes 4 minutes of entr'acte music against a blank screen. this is the version that has been generally shown worldwide since the 1980s, though sometimes it is shown without the intermission and entr'acte, resulting in a listed running time of 203 minutes. the initial u.s.a. release was re-titled 'the magnificent seven' and released november, 1956, with english subtitles, and ran 158 minutes. some european releases were even further shortened to 141 minutes. landmark films re-released the film in the u.s. in december 1982, the first time outside japan the film saw a major release with its running time intact (although the intermission and entr'acte were removed). later u.s.a. releases by avco-embassy pictures, janus films, and films incorporated, and by bfi in the uk, are also the full original version of the film. connections featured in objectif: 500 millions (1966) user reviews793 review top review this film can be described in one word...awesome!! this is my favorite kurosawa film, the man was a true master of the cinematic arts. if you have never seen a kurosawa film definetly make this your first. though extremely long at about 3 1/2 hours it is well worth the time spent. to quickly summarize, a poor japanese village hires 7 samurai to protect it from being raided by bandits. don't get me wrong there is way more to it than that, i just dont want to give anything away. this is an intense and emotional movie that hooks you from the first scene and keeps you on the line till it is all over. the battle scene at the end is in true kurosawa form. the acting is outstanding by everyone involved from the main characters all the way down to the very last extra. of course the best way to see any film, especially a kurosawa film is on the big screen if you are able to. beautifully filmed, in black and white, anyone familiar with kurosawa's work has to wonder visually how much more gorgeous it could have been had kurosawa had the option of color in 1954. the camera use is brilliant and every scene is balanced visually. this film is also the first one to use "the wipe" as a way of changing from one scene to another. this technique was later used by george lucas in his star wars movies. i would also recommend the dvd version that has the commentary option by the japanese cinema expert if anyone is interested in a deeper understanding of the "hows" and "whys" of kurosawa's film making. any man, woman, boy or girl who just wants to see a really, really great movie, this is the one! an a+++ in my book. helpful?155 51 kool_joker sep 30, 2002 faq7 was this film not favorably received by japanese critics? is 'seven samurai' based on a book? why is everyone shocked that kambei is shaving his head? details edit release date april 26, 1954 (japan) country of origin japan language japanese also known as les sept samoura?s filming locations izu peninsula, shizuoka, japan production company toho company see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget ?125,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $318,649 opening weekend us & canada $15,942 jul 28, 2002 gross worldwide $346,258 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 3 hours 27 minutes color black and white sound mix mono aspect ratio 1.33 : 1 related news seven samurai ending explained: from japanese history to the gig economy mar 15slash film akira kurosawa's career advice every aspiring director needs to hear mar 11slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of shichinin no samurai (1954) in australia? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
