https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114369/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_19::seven (1995) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) seven original title: se7en 19951995 aaaa 2h 7m imdb rating 8.6/10 1.6m your rating rate popularity 154 4 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:17 4 videos 99+ photos crimedramamystery two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his motives.two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his motives.two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his motives. imdb rating 8.6/10 1.6m your rating rate popularity 154 4 director david fincher writer andrew kevin walker stars morgan freeman brad pitt kevin spacey top credits director david fincher writer andrew kevin walker stars morgan freeman brad pitt kevin spacey see production, box office & company info 1.7kuser reviews 177critic reviews 65metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #19 nominated for 1 oscar 29 wins & 43 nominations total videos4 trailer 2:17 official trailer trailer 0:31 seven clip 1:59 a guide to the films of david fincher video 3:40 what roles did brad pitt miss out on? photos234 top cast edit morgan freeman somersetas somerset brad pitt millsas mills kevin spacey john doeas john doe andrew kevin walker dead man at 1st crime sceneas dead man at 1st crime scene daniel zacapa detective taylor at first murderas detective taylor at first murder gwyneth paltrow tracyas tracy john cassini officer davisas officer davis bob mack gluttony victimas gluttony victim peter crombie dr. o'neillas dr. o'neill reg e. cathey dr. santiagoas dr. santiago r. lee ermey police captainas police captain george christy workman at door of somerset's officeas workman at door of somerset's office endre hules cab driveras cab driver hawthorne james george the night guard at the libraryas george the night guard at the library william davidson first guard at the libraryas first guard at the library (as roscoe davidson) bob collins second guard at the libraryas second guard at the library jimmy dale hartsell library janitoras library janitor richard roundtree talbotas talbot director david fincher writer andrew kevin walker all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.8 fight club watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options 8.2 shutter island watch options storyline edit a film about two homicide detectives' (morgan freeman and brad pitt) desperate hunt for a serial killer who justifies his crimes as absolution for the world's ignorance of the seven deadly sins. the movie takes us from the tortured remains of one victim to the next as the sociopathic "john doe" (kevin spacey) sermonizes to detectives somerset and mills -- one sin at a time. the sin of gluttony comes first and the murderer's terrible capacity is graphically demonstrated in the dark and subdued tones characteristic of film noir. the seasoned and cultured but jaded somerset researches the seven deadly sins in an effort to understand the killer's modus operandi while the bright but green and impulsive detective mills (pitt) scoffs at his efforts to get inside the mind of a killer... ?mark fleetwood <mfleetwo@mail.coin.missouri.edu> serial killerdetectiveserial murderseven deadly sinsmurder311 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light. genres crime drama mystery thriller certificate aa parents guide did you know edit trivia as preparation for his traumatic scene in the interrogation room, leland orser would breathe in and out rapidly, so that his body would be overly saturated with oxygen, giving him the ability to hyperventilate. he also did not sleep for a few days, in order to achieve his character's disoriented look. goofs many fans and critics initially thought the movie was clearly set in new york city, so the nearby desert was seen as a geographical error. in fact, while the story was inspired by screenwriter andrew kevin walker's unhappy time living in queens, the film explicitly does not take place in nyc or any other specific locale; in this manner, the desert being so close to a major metropolitan area is not a mistake. quotes david mills: wait, i thought all you did was kill innocent people. john doe: innocent? is that supposed to be funny? an obese man... a disgusting man who could barely stand up; a man who if you saw him on the street, you'd point him out to your friends so that they could join you in mocking him; a man, who if you saw him while you were eating, you wouldn't be able to finish your meal. after him, i picked the lawyer and i know you both must have been secretly thanking me for that one. this is a man who dedicated his life to making money by lying with every breath that he could muster to keeping murderers and rapists on the streets! david mills: murderers? john doe: a woman... david mills: murderers, john, like yourself? john doe: [interrupts] a woman... so ugly on the inside she couldn't bear to go on living if she couldn't be beautiful on the outside. a drug dealer, a drug dealing pederast, actually! and let's not forget the disease-spreading whore! only in a world this shitty could you even try to say these were innocent people and keep a straight face. but that's the point. we see a deadly sin on every street corner, in every home, and we tolerate it. we tolerate it because it's common, it's trivial. we tolerate it morning, noon, and night. well, not anymore. i'm setting the example. what i've done is going to be puzzled over and studied and followed... forever. crazy credits spoiler: kevin spacey's name is not included in the opening titles to keep the john doe intrigue going. to compensate, he is listed twice in the closing credits: once before the credits start rolling and once in the rolling credits in order of appearance. alternate versions usa laserdisc edition adds a few scenes deleted from theatrical release as a bonus at the end of the program, including: a prologue where somerset (morgan freeman) is going to buy a country house. he uses his switchblade (seen many times in the final cut, but not explained) to cut out a small piece of wallpaper. there is an extended scene at the mills' when david (brad pitt) is playing with his dogs, and somerset talks to tracy. he tells her about the house and shows her the wallpaper. she tells him that it wouldn't be such a good idea to show it to david, saying "he wouldn't understand.". these two scenes establish somerset's characters better, and the second one helps the viewer understand why the wife chooses somerset to talk to when she gets pregnant. she knows that somerset is much more sensible than her husband, and will understand her. the second one however was probably dumped earlier since it is included among the dailies and outtakes and the first one appears as a deleted scene. connections edited into l'affaire caravage (2019) soundtracks closer (precursor) written by trent reznor performed by nine inch nails courtesy of nothing/tvt/interscope records by arrangement with warner special products and tvt records user reviews1.7k review top review 10/10 outstanding performances / great storytelling this movie is from start to finish a well produced and directed film. the performances in this movie are outstanding. brad pitt, once again, makes his role a stand-out performance by putting his versatile acting skills into his interpretation of detective david mills. morgan freeman is well-cast. his brooding acting style fits the character (detective william somerset) like a glove, and gwyneth paltrow gives her best performance ever in the role of brad pitt's supportive wife/lover (tracy mills). and of course, kevin spacey who plays the diabolical yet misunderstood serial killer. the movie is suspenseful and in parts very exciting. there is a "pseudo-noir" quality to this movie that really fits in well with the content of the film (serial killing). it has it's philosophical moments that anyone who thinks a lot about the state of the world today can appreciate. it makes subtle moral judgements without insulting any beliefs that the viewer may have and it also generates debate for any post-film coffee/drinks gathering. andrew kevin walker (screenplay) has taken the subject of the seven deadly sins and he really puts a great new twist on these themes. as a writer, i really could appreciate the depth that he goes into with these ideas. the movie gives us just enough information to be entertained and informed yet not bombarded and made bored with too much philosophy. in this respect, the film doesn't "preach" any special meaning even though the film's moral statements are still maintained. this film can be enjoyed on so many levels and i really enjoyed the third act. one of the best pieces of storytelling and scriptwriting ever. outstanding performances from everyone involved (and yes, of course, david fincher does a wonderful job) say no more. ***** helpful?228 49 purebace dec 4, 2003 faq12 why do some of the swat guys call mills and somerset "dicks"? what is "se7en" about? is "se7en" based on a book? details edit release date september 22, 1995 (canada) country of origin united states official site official facebook language english also known as sep7 filming locations pacific electric building, los angeles, california, usa production companies cecchi gori pictures juno pix new line cinema see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $33,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $100,125,643 opening weekend us & canada $13,949,807 sep 24, 1995 gross worldwide $327,333,559 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 7 minutes color color sound mix dts dolby digital aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news david fincher's the killer has wrapped filming mar 29slash film why film noir movies barely exist anymore mar 28tvovermind.com contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of se7en (1995) in mexico? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
