https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0245429/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_31::spirited away (2001) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) spirited away original title: sen to chihiro no kamikakushi 20012001 pgpg 2h 5m imdb rating 8.6/10 725k your rating rate popularity 461 49 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:35 4 videos 99+ photos animationadventurefamily during her family's move to the suburbs, a sullen 10-year-old girl wanders into a world ruled by gods, witches, and spirits, and where humans are changed into beasts.during her family's move to the suburbs, a sullen 10-year-old girl wanders into a world ruled by gods, witches, and spirits, and where humans are changed into beasts.during her family's move to the suburbs, a sullen 10-year-old girl wanders into a world ruled by gods, witches, and spirits, and where humans are changed into beasts. imdb rating 8.6/10 725k your rating rate popularity 461 49 director hayao miyazaki writer hayao miyazaki stars daveigh chase(english version) suzanne pleshette(english version) miyu irino(voice) top credits director hayao miyazaki writer hayao miyazaki stars daveigh chase(english version) suzanne pleshette(english version) miyu irino(voice) see production, box office & company info 1.5kuser reviews 211critic reviews 96metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #31 won 1 oscar 58 wins & 31 nominations total videos4 trailer 1:35 spirited away clip 2:12 a guide to the films of hayao miyazaki clip 1:40 spirited away clip 1:22 spirited away photos254 top cast edit daveigh chase chihiroas chihiro (english version) (voice) suzanne pleshette yubabaas yubaba (english version) (voice) ? miyu irino hakuas haku (voice) rumi hiiragi chihiro oginoas chihiro ogino (voice) ? mari natsuki yubabaas yubaba (voice) ? takashi nait? akio oginoas akio ogino (voice) yasuko sawaguchi y?ko oginoas y?ko ogino (voice) tatsuya gash?in aogaeruas aogaeru (voice) ry?nosuke kamiki b?as b? (voice) yumi tamai rinas rin (voice) y? ?izumi bandai-gaeruas bandai-gaeru (voice) koba hayashi kawa no kamias kawa no kami (voice) tsunehiko kamij? chichiyakuas chichiyaku (voice) takehiko ono aniyakuas aniyaku (voice) bunta sugawara kamaj?as kamaj? (voice) shigeru wakita shir? sait? michiko yamamoto director hayao miyazaki writer hayao miyazaki all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.2 howl's moving castle watch options 8.2 my neighbor totoro watch options 8.5 the lion king watch options 8.4 wall?e watch options 7.8 kiki's delivery service watch options 7.6 ponyo watch options 8.3 toy story watch options 8.3 up watch options 8.4 coco watch options 8.2 finding nemo watch options 8.1 monsters, inc. watch options 8.0 castle in the sky watch options storyline edit chihiro and her parents are moving to a small japanese town in the countryside, much to chihiro's dismay. on the way to their new home, chihiro's father makes a wrong turn and drives down a lonely one-lane road which dead-ends in front of a tunnel. her parents decide to stop the car and explore the area. they go through the tunnel and find an abandoned amusement park on the other side, with its own little town. when her parents see a restaurant with great-smelling food but no staff, they decide to eat and pay later. however, chihiro refuses to eat and decides to explore the theme park a bit more. she meets a boy named haku who tells her that chihiro and her parents are in danger, and they must leave immediately. she runs to the restaurant and finds that her parents have turned into pigs. in addition, the theme park turns out to be a town inhabited by demons, spirits, and evil gods. at the center of the town is a bathhouse where these creatures go to relax. the owner of the bathhouse is the evil witch yubaba, who is intent on keeping all trespassers as captive workers, including chihiro. chihiro must rely on haku to save her parents in hopes of returning to their world. ?zachary harper spirit worldstudio ghiblichild protagonistfalling from heightreal name134 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the tunnel led chihiro to a mysterious town. genres animation adventure family fantasy mystery certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia despite having a rich plot with developed characters, sen to chihiro no kamikakushi (2001) was not made with a script. in fact, miyazaki's films never had scripts. "i don't have the story finished and ready when we start work on a film," the filmmaker told midnight eye. "i usually don't have the time. so the story develops when i start drawing storyboards. the production starts very soon thereafter, while the storyboards are still developing." miyazaki does not know where the plot is going, and he lets it happen organically. "it's not me who makes the film. the film makes itself and i have no choice but to follow". goofs after haku flies out of the bedroom we see sen's left hand touching more of the blood on the railing. the elevator attendant sees it on the same hand after grabbing her arm as she tries to board it. not much later we see her looking at the same hand again before running across the pipe. it isn't till after being held captive by the baby under the cushions that the blood switches hands as he holds her by the left arm revealing no blood on that hand at all. quotes zeniba: once you do something, you never forget. even if you can't remember. crazy credits the credits have a series of still images from the film. the last image before the film fades is chihiro's shoe in the river. alternate versions various dialog is added to the english dub to explain settings, translate japanese text, or traditions; for example, when chihiro first sees the bathhouse, in the english dub, she says "it's a bathhouse", which isn't present in the japanese version. connections edited into miyazaki dreams of flying (2017) soundtracks ano natsu e ("one summer's day") (uncredited) composed by joe hisaishi user reviews1.5k review top review a fantastic film (most literally) good morning. last night i was able to catch the disney us release of spirited away ( originally the spiriting away of sen and chihiro). this is another disney purchase of a japanese hit. for those that don't know, disney has a nasty habit of importing titles from japan and then changing the story when dubbing films or creatively editing the endings or plot to "suit american audiences". personally i think that's a travesty. so whenever you go see the disney release of a foreign film, realize the film you are watching may not be the 'same film' the rest of the world sees. ok, that aside, was it a good film? i deliberately did no research before seeing this film as i prefer to go into films with little or no expectations. all i knew was that the film was directed and written by hayao miyazaki, the same man responsible for princess mononoke ( a film released a few years back that i also enjoyed). in the case of spirited away, i'm glad i did not know what i was getting myself into, otherwise i might not have come (and surprisingly, not for the reasons you likely assume). the film concerns a young girl and her parents who find an odd tunnel in the side of a hill while moving to their new home. upon investigating the tunnel, they find a strange "theme park" on the other side devoid of inhabitants. upon investigating the theme park, things are obviously very "wrong" (at least to the little girl- her parents seem woefully oblivious) and as it gets closer to sunset, things just get worse. unfortunately, this is all the plot i am able to reveal without spoiling the uniqueness of this film. this is an 'adult-oriented' movie. it has some rather disturbing images and ranks among the weirdest films i have seen in my life. it's a bizarre amalgam of wizard of oz,the neverending story, alice in wonderland, my friend totoro, chitty chitty bang bang and the city of lost children (just to name a few). this film is interesting from beginning to end even though the plot advances rather slowly. there is always some new thing to see or some truly bizarre thing to witness. the animation is above average but not as impressive as mononoke (and even features several gratuitous cgi sequences). there is a great story and some great humor. i laughed more in this film than i have at any hollywood 'comedy' in the last 5 years (and spirited away is not a comedy, it just has several good comedic breaks). no nudity. no profanity. no 'gratuitous' violence. some rather disturbing scenes of characters getting eaten alive (and some threats thereof) but even the eaten characters return unharmed later in the film. this is not really a 'family film' (and definitely not a "kiddee film") but it is something you can take the whole family to. smaller children will not understand the story, but they'll like the visuals and enjoy the humor. mid-teens might be a bit "weirded out" by the subject matter and the visuals and older teens and adults may be too jaded by american cinema to enjoy the film for what it is- a lavish fairytale from a foreign country. this film runs about 2 hours so leave the "kidney-buster" sodas at the snack bar. if you have to take a bathroom break, you will miss something and i assure you no friend nor helpful audience member will likely be able to adequately convey what it is you did just miss. if you enjoy anime or the bizarre, make an effort to see this film. even if you don't normally like "cartoon movies", you might give this one a chance. it is not a 'casual moviegoer' film by any means and does rely on some thought from the audience to enjoy it. it will also likely be the oddest film you'll see this decade and you'll be sure to remember this film long after all the other 'disposable movies' have faded from your recollection. this film is receiving almost no advertising. i didn't even know it existed until i saw the poster tucked away in a corner at the theatre earlier this week. i hope disney puts a little more effort into advertising this film's release because it is truly an original film and worthy of a large audience. hopefully positive word-of-mouth will get this film the attendance it deserves. helpful?184 98 kraley oct 4, 2002 faq8 is 'spirited away' based on a book? what are the ages of the characters? how long was chihiro in the other world? details edit release date july 20, 2001 (japan) country of origin japan official sites disney's official site miyazaki collection languages japanese english also known as le voyage de chihiro production companies tokuma shoten studio ghibli nippon television network (ntv) see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $19,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $13,750,644 opening weekend us & canada $449,839 sep 22, 2002 gross worldwide $355,668,961 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 5 minutes color color sound mix dts-es dolby digital ex aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news this spirited away scene was a direct nod to dragon ball mar 14slash film link tank: austin butler, florence pugh and their potential parts in dune: part 2 mar 11den of geek contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of sen to chihiro no kamikakushi (2001) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
