https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0076759/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_27::star wars (1977) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) star wars 19771977 1414 2h 1m imdb rating 8.6/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 225 1 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:02 29 videos 99+ photos actionadventurefantasy luke skywalker joins forces with a jedi knight, a cocky pilot, a wookiee and two droids to save the galaxy from the empire's world-destroying battle station, while also attempting to rescue ... read allluke skywalker joins forces with a jedi knight, a cocky pilot, a wookiee and two droids to save the galaxy from the empire's world-destroying battle station, while also attempting to rescue princess leia from the mysterious darth vader.luke skywalker joins forces with a jedi knight, a cocky pilot, a wookiee and two droids to save the galaxy from the empire's world-destroying battle station, while also attempting to rescue princess leia from the mysterious darth vader. imdb rating 8.6/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 225 1 director george lucas writer george lucas stars mark hamill harrison ford carrie fisher top credits director george lucas writer george lucas stars mark hamill harrison ford carrie fisher see production, box office & company info 2kuser reviews 206critic reviews 90metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #27 won 6 oscars 63 wins & 29 nominations total videos29 trailer 2:02 original teaser trailer trailer 1:08 star wars: episode iv - a new hope clip 4:48 "the lego star wars holiday special" history download clip 7:23 jaws, shreks, & lion kings: a summer blockbuster history clip 4:16 6 movie & tv podcasts when you need a binge break clip 3:51 watch like a pro: giancarlo esposito's ultimate villain watchlist clip 4:02 "the mandalorian" takes star wars to wild west of space clip 4:03 how does emperor palpatine fit into 'the rise of skywalker'? clip 3:07 what happens to obi-wan between star wars trilogies? clip 4:16 gaten matarazzo has the best interview ever clip 3:23 the evolution of anakin skywalker clip 3:05 "the mandalorian" and the future of 'star wars' photos541 top cast edit mark hamill luke skywalkeras luke skywalker harrison ford han soloas han solo carrie fisher princess leia organaas princess leia organa alec guinness ben obi-wan kenobias ben obi-wan kenobi peter cushing grand moff tarkinas grand moff tarkin anthony daniels c-3poas c-3po kenny baker r2-d2as r2-d2 peter mayhew chewbaccaas chewbacca david prowse darth vaderas darth vader phil brown uncle owenas uncle owen shelagh fraser aunt beruas aunt beru jack purvis chief jawaas chief jawa alex mccrindle general dodonnaas general dodonna eddie byrne general willardas general willard drewe henley red leaderas red leader (as drewe hemley) denis lawson red two (wedge)as red two (wedge) (as dennis lawson) garrick hagon red three (biggs)as red three (biggs) jack klaff red four (john d.)as red four (john d.) director george lucas writer george lucas all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro here's your cheat sheet for the 'star wars' saga here's your cheat sheet for the 'star wars' saga with the release of star wars: the rise of skywalker, this is the perfect opportunity to recap the epic space opera audiences have enjoyed for over 40 years. view the force 8:18 more like this 8.7 star wars: episode v - the empire strikes back watch options 8.3 star wars: episode vi - return of the jedi watch options 7.6 star wars: episode iii - revenge of the sith watch options 6.5 star wars: episode i - the phantom menace watch options 6.6 star wars: episode ii - attack of the clones watch options 7.9 star wars: the force awakens watch options 7.8 rogue one watch options 6.9 star wars: episode viii - the last jedi watch options 8.6 back to the future watch options 8.8 the lord of the rings: the two towers watch options 8.9 the lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options storyline edit the imperial forces, under orders from cruel darth vader, hold princess leia hostage in their efforts to quell the rebellion against the galactic empire. luke skywalker and han solo, captain of the millennium falcon, work together with the companionable droid duo r2-d2 and c-3po to rescue the beautiful princess, help the rebel alliance and restore freedom and justice to the galaxy. ?jwelch5742 rebelliongalactic warprincesslightsaberspace opera435 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines it's back! the force will be with you for three weeks only. (1979 reissue poster) genres action adventure fantasy sci-fi certificate 14 parents guide did you know edit trivia george lucas was so sure this movie would flop that instead of attending the premiere, he went on vacation to hawaii with his good friend steven spielberg, where they came up with the idea for raiders of the lost ark (1981) after they found out star wars became a success. goofs when c-3po and r2-d2 are in the control room of the death star, the storm troopers barge in, and one hits his head on the door. this goof was highlighted in the remastered version with a comedy "donk" sound effect. quotes [han answers the intercom after comandeering an attack station] han solo: [1:15:22] uh, everything's under control. situation normal. voice: what happened? han solo: [getting nervous] uh, we had a slight weapons malfunction, but uh... everything's perfectly all right now. we're fine. we're all fine here now, thank you. how are you? voice: we're sending a squad up. han solo: uh, uh... negative, negative. we had a reactor leak here now. give us a few minutes to lock it down. large leak, very dangerous. voice: who is this? what's your operating number? han solo: uh... [han shoots the intercom] han solo: [muttering] boring conversation anyway. luke, we're gonna have company! crazy credits the film has no opening credits. instead, the first credits seen at the end of the film are presented in the order in which they would have otherwise been shown at the start. although by the late 1990s it was commonplace for films to not have opening credits, in 1977 it was somewhat unusual for a major film to not have opening credits. alternate versions in the 1997 re-release, two of the cantina aliens that had werewolf heads have been replaced. one was replaced with lizard-like creature while the other was replaced by a creature with elephant tusks. both the werewolves and their replacements can seen in footage used in a supplemental dvd packaged with the soundtrack to episode iii connections edited into turkish star wars (1982) user reviews2k review top review 10/10 legendary piece of cinema only seen the original star wars films a few times, i tend to forget how great of a magical experience it is! a new hope is so awesome in so many aspects especially the music and sounds of everything! it's amazing how it was made for it's time i still i don't understand how they did many things. i will admit it has a few bits that are boring but still glorious. up until a few years ago i didn't see most of the films and i didn't understand the hype now i do in which i'm happy with them all even seen the new ones. helpful?43 10 uniqueparticle jan 16, 2020 faq37 why is mos eisley space port on tatooine? aren't space ports usually in space and not on land? why aren't droids welcome in the cantina at mos eisley since they serve everyone else? who called the storm troopers to the cantina to investigate what happened when obi-wan cut ponda baba's arm off? details edit release date may 25, 1977 (united states) country of origin united states official sites disney+ hotstar lucasfilm ltd. (united states) language english also known as la guerre des ?toiles filming locations tikal national park, guatemala production companies lucasfilm twentieth century fox see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $11,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $460,998,507 opening weekend us & canada $1,554,475 may 30, 1977 gross worldwide $775,398,007 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 1 minute related news ethan hawke on his disturbing ?moon knight? introduction scene: ?that sprang out of my imagination? mar 30variety film + tv ?mad god? ? phil tippett?s stop motion movie finds a home at shudder! mar 30bloody-disgusting.com contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of star wars (1977) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
