https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0068646/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_2::the godfather (1972) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the godfather 19721972 18a18a 2h 55m imdb rating 9.2/10 1.8m your rating rate popularity 38 7 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play clip1:16 'the godfather' | anniversary mashup 13 videos 99+ photos crimedrama the aging patriarch of an organized crime dynasty in postwar new york city transfers control of his clandestine empire to his reluctant youngest son.the aging patriarch of an organized crime dynasty in postwar new york city transfers control of his clandestine empire to his reluctant youngest son.the aging patriarch of an organized crime dynasty in postwar new york city transfers control of his clandestine empire to his reluctant youngest son. imdb rating 9.2/10 1.8m your rating rate popularity 38 7 director francis ford coppola writers mario puzo(screenplay by) francis ford coppola(screenplay by) stars marlon brando al pacino james caan top credits director francis ford coppola writers mario puzo(screenplay by) francis ford coppola(screenplay by) stars marlon brando al pacino james caan see production, box office & company info 4.9kuser reviews 270critic reviews 100metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #2 won 3 oscars 31 wins & 30 nominations total videos13 trailer 1:16 official trailer trailer 2:03 the godfather clip 1:16 'the godfather' | anniversary mashup clip 0:43 'the godfather' | filming locations clip 3:28 moran atias picks her "seinfeld" spirt animal clip 1:42 the godfather clip 0:48 the godfather clip 1:49 the godfather full episode 2:32 who are the best tv and movie dads? video 1:20 movies vs. films, and the best of both with o'shea jackson jr. video 3:21 ben schwartz is don corleone, james bond, and pennywise video 1:20 '2001: a space odyssey' changed michael mando's view of life photos487 top cast edit marlon brando don vito corleoneas don vito corleone al pacino michaelas michael james caan sonnyas sonny diane keaton kay adamsas kay adams richard s. castellano clemenzaas clemenza (as richard castellano) robert duvall tom hagenas tom hagen sterling hayden capt. mccluskeyas capt. mccluskey john marley jack woltzas jack woltz richard conte barzinias barzini al lettieri sollozzoas sollozzo abe vigoda tessioas tessio talia shire connieas connie gianni russo carloas carlo john cazale fredoas fredo rudy bond cuneoas cuneo al martino johnny fontaneas johnny fontane morgana king mama corleoneas mama corleone lenny montana luca brasias luca brasi director francis ford coppola writers mario puzo(screenplay by) (based on the novel by) francis ford coppola(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 9.0 the godfather: part ii watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 9.1 the dark knight watch options 7.6 the godfather: part iii watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.9 the lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring watch options storyline edit the godfather "don" vito corleone is the head of the corleone mafia family in new york. he is at the event of his daughter's wedding. michael, vito's youngest son and a decorated ww ii marine is also present at the wedding. michael seems to be uninterested in being a part of the family business. vito is a powerful man, and is kind to all those who give him respect but is ruthless against those who do not. but when a powerful and treacherous rival wants to sell drugs and needs the don's influence for the same, vito refuses to do it. what follows is a clash between vito's fading old values and the new ways which may cause michael to do the thing he was most reluctant in doing and wage a mob war against all the other mafia families which could tear the corleone family apart. ?srijanarora-152-448595 crime familymafiapatriarchorganized crimegambling syndicate370 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines an offer you can't refuse. genres crime drama certificate 18a parents guide did you know edit trivia during an early shot of the scene where vito corleone returns home and his people carry him up the stairs, marlon brando put weights under his body on the bed as a prank, to make it harder to lift him. goofs during sonny and carlo's fight, one of sonny's "movie" punches is shot from the wrong angle and clearly misses, but still produces the sound of an impact. quotes [to rocco who has killed paulie in the car] peter clemenza: leave the gun. take the cannoli. crazy credits in the end credits, marlon brando's name is the only one that is not accompanied by the character name that he plays (e.g. "as vito corleone"). alternate versions in 1972, paramount was owned by gulf & western, so that company's name appears on the opening paramount logo. when the film was re-released in 1997, paramount was owned by viacom, which placed its named on the re-release paramount logo, and all subsequent video releases. connections edited into the godfather: a novel for television (1977) soundtracks mall wedding sequence (1972) music by carmine coppola user reviews4.9k review top review 10/10 initially, i wasn't a fan... but then i realised this is a masterpiece. a timeless masterpiece. initially, i didn't like this film all that much - i found it rather over-hyped and boring. this was until the advent of dvd, which gave me the feature i needed for this sort of film: subtitles. once i switched them on and heard (read) every last word of brando's ramblings and other characters ramblings, i grew a true appreciation for this epic. to make a true epic, you need all of three following ingredients working in near perfect harmony. for screenwriters who come across this, take the following pointers on board: 1) contrasting characters: good films have some character distinction, but most fall rather flat because the core of each character is the same. of course, there are exceptions to rule (ie... where you want mono-tonal characters... aka matrix; or where you want outlandish contrasts... aka the fifth element), but ultimately, this is what makes films deep, meaningful and grand. consider the contrasts between the don's children. michael is rather cool, rational and collected, whereas sonny is more hot-headed, spontaneous and simple minded. but simply having these contrasts is not nearly enough. what you really need to do is to develop these characters - place them in situations - and then dwell on how their character impacts on the situation they're put in. the godfather is a terrific example of how to pull this off. while many try to do this in screenplays, most lose the plot and create character obscurities that stretch credibility. 2) transformation: the central character(s) must undergo a transformation, resulting in them being almost unrecognizable by the end of the film. by putting them into situations, the character's character must not only influence the outcome of the situation; it must also have a lasting impact on the character. consider michael at the wedding and compare that to the michael we see at the end of the film. again, many films try, but most fail because they come up with unreal (literally, not praisingly) or simply moronic transformations (eg, wall street). 3) patience: men in black 2 was an astounding film for one simple reason - it was an entire film squashed into about 70 minutes. it was not much longer than an episode of er or buffy. i certainly hope the new goal of hollywood isn't to make films as short as possible. all the great ones spend time - time developing characters, family life, growth, patience with the story telling in general. this is the key (provided that the story isn't mind-numbingly boring). dances with wolves, heat.. and so on are very patient but top-class films. while studios may be lukewarm on the idea of longer films, they are worth it if you have a ripper story to base it on. i feel that this film has not dated all that much and has tremendous re-watch-ability. helpful?457 142 mattrochman oct 14, 2006 faq43 was tom hagen the one who put the horse's severed head in jack woltz's bed? what is the conclusion of this movie? who shot moe greene?? and how was the special effect with the glasses & blood done?? it was 1972, so we can rule out cgi. details edit release date march 24, 1972 (canada) country of origin united states official sites official facebook official instagram languages english italian latin also known as le parrain filming locations forza d'agr?, messina, sicily, italy production companies paramount pictures alfran productions see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $6,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $136,381,073 opening weekend us & canada $302,393 mar 19, 1972 gross worldwide $250,340,098 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 55 minutes color color sound mix mono aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news former u.k. paramount theme park hits another stumbling block as planning application suddenly withdrawn mar 30variety film + tv the best movies to buy or stream this week: ?west side story,? ?red rocket,? ?the godfather? on 4k mar 29the playlist contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
