https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0133093/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_16::the matrix (1999) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the matrix 19991999 14a14a 2h 16m imdb rating 8.7/10 1.8m your rating rate popularity 231 24 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:26 15 videos 99+ photos actionsci-fi when a beautiful stranger leads computer hacker neo to a forbidding underworld, he discovers the shocking truth--the life he knows is the elaborate deception of an evil cyber-intelligence.when a beautiful stranger leads computer hacker neo to a forbidding underworld, he discovers the shocking truth--the life he knows is the elaborate deception of an evil cyber-intelligence.when a beautiful stranger leads computer hacker neo to a forbidding underworld, he discovers the shocking truth--the life he knows is the elaborate deception of an evil cyber-intelligence. imdb rating 8.7/10 1.8m your rating rate popularity 231 24 directors lana wachowski lilly wachowski writers lilly wachowski lana wachowski stars keanu reeves laurence fishburne carrie-anne moss top credits directors lana wachowski lilly wachowski writers lilly wachowski lana wachowski stars keanu reeves laurence fishburne carrie-anne moss see production, box office & company info 4.8kuser reviews 249critic reviews 73metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #16 won 4 oscars 42 wins & 51 nominations total videos15 trailer 2:26 theatrical trailer trailer 0:32 trailer trailer 2:26 home video trailer clip 3:45 movie scavenger hunt: can you find these mcu easter eggs? clip 3:49 what we know about 'the matrix 4' ... so far clip 3:09 keanu's endless summer or reeves reloaded interview 1:59 "would you rather?" with "altered carbon" star martha higareda full episode 3:46 'emperor' star kat graham was inspired by this hollywood icon video 3:12 what roles has keanu reeves turned down? video 1:01 the matrix | 20th anniversary mashup video 2:31 which roles did samuel l. jackson turn down? video 1:55 what jack from 'titanic' was really thinking, according to phoebe robinson photos172 top cast edit keanu reeves neoas neo laurence fishburne morpheusas morpheus carrie-anne moss trinityas trinity hugo weaving agent smithas agent smith gloria foster oracleas oracle joe pantoliano cypheras cypher marcus chong tankas tank julian arahanga apocas apoc matt doran mouseas mouse belinda mcclory switchas switch anthony ray parker dozeras dozer paul goddard agent brownas agent brown robert taylor agent jonesas agent jones david aston rhineheartas rhineheart marc aden gray choias choi (as marc gray) ada nicodemou dujour (white rabbit girl)as dujour (white rabbit girl) deni gordon priestessas priestess rowan witt spoon boyas spoon boy directors lana wachowski lilly wachowski writers lilly wachowski lana wachowski all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.8 inception watch options 8.8 the lord of the rings: the two towers watch options 8.9 the lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 7.2 the matrix reloaded watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 8.7 star wars: episode v - the empire strikes back watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.6 seven watch options storyline edit thomas a. anderson is a man living two lives. by day he is an average computer programmer and by night a hacker known as neo. neo has always questioned his reality, but the truth is far beyond his imagination. neo finds himself targeted by the police when he is contacted by morpheus, a legendary computer hacker branded a terrorist by the government. as a rebel against the machines, neo must confront the agents: super-powerful computer programs devoted to stopping neo and the entire human rebellion. ?redcommander27 artificial realitywar with machinessimulated realitydystopiapost apocalypse368 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines free your mind genres action sci-fi certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia to prepare for the scene where neo wakes up in a pod, keanu reeves lost fifteen pounds and shaved his whole body to give neo an emaciated look. goofs the name of the software company neo works at is spelled "metacortex" on the outside of the building, but a sign inside the building has it spelled "meta cortechs". featurettes suggest that the name was changed to avoid an expensive legal issue; evidently one of the signs was missed. quotes morpheus: this is your last chance. after this, there is no turning back. you take the blue pill - the story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to believe. you take the red pill - you stay in wonderland and i show you how deep the rabbit-hole goes. crazy credits at the end of all the credits, the url for the (now defunct) website of the film is given, www.whatisthematrix.com, along with a password, 'steak'. there's a 'secret' link on the page that requests a password. alternate versions because 'the matrix' was filmed in australia the region 4 (australia) dvd release includes a more comprehensive australian based list of credits. connections edited into the matrix: path of neo (2005) soundtracks dissolved girl written by robert del naja, grant marshall (as grantley marshall), andrew vowles (as andrew vowles), sara j., and matt schwartz performed by massive attack courtesy of virgin records ltd. by arrangement with virgin records america, inc. user reviews4.8k review top review 10/10 one of the best action sci fi action movies of all time! the film is as well crafted as the matrix itself! on another level entirely to any other science fiction film from the last 20 years . getting lost in another world, is interly what cinema is made for. this one takes you into a whole new universe interly . helpful?120 25 mr_heraclius feb 23, 2020 faq37 how did morpheus realize that neo is the "one"? what exactly is oracle? why does the crew of the nebuchadnezzar have to answer payphones to get back from the matrix? why can't they use their cell phones? details edit release date march 31, 1999 (united states) countries of origin united states australia official sites hbo max (united states) official facebook language english also known as la matrice filming locations nashville, tennessee, usa production companies warner bros. village roadshow pictures groucho film partnership see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $63,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $172,076,928 opening weekend us & canada $27,788,331 apr 4, 1999 gross worldwide $467,222,728 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 16 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital sdds dolby atmos aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news the matrix resurrections writer aleksandar hemon on mythologies, meta-narratives, tolstoy, and tv mar 30the film stage john wick 2 pulled off the impossible for one of its best action scenes mar 30slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of the matrix (1999) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
