https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120689/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_26::the green mile (1999) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the green mile 19991999 14a14a 3h 9m imdb rating 8.6/10 1.2m your rating rate popularity 153 10 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer0:31 3 videos 99+ photos crimedramafantasy the lives of guards on death row are affected by one of their charges: a black man accused of child murder and rape, yet who has a mysterious gift.the lives of guards on death row are affected by one of their charges: a black man accused of child murder and rape, yet who has a mysterious gift.the lives of guards on death row are affected by one of their charges: a black man accused of child murder and rape, yet who has a mysterious gift. imdb rating 8.6/10 1.2m your rating rate popularity 153 10 director frank darabont writers stephen king(novel) frank darabont(screenplay) stars tom hanks michael clarke duncan david morse top credits director frank darabont writers stephen king(novel) frank darabont(screenplay) stars tom hanks michael clarke duncan david morse see production, box office & company info 2kuser reviews 209critic reviews 61metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #26 nominated for 4 oscars 15 wins & 37 nominations total videos3 trailer 0:31 the green mile clip 1:34 'the green mile' | 20th anniversary mashup video 3:22 what roles has tom hanks turned down? photos498 top cast edit tom hanks paul edgecombas paul edgecomb michael clarke duncan john coffeyas john coffey david morse brutus 'brutal' howellas brutus 'brutal' howell bonnie hunt jan edgecombas jan edgecomb james cromwell warden hal mooresas warden hal moores michael jeter eduard delacroixas eduard delacroix graham greene arlen bitterbuckas arlen bitterbuck doug hutchison percy wetmoreas percy wetmore sam rockwell 'wild bill' whartonas 'wild bill' wharton barry pepper dean stantonas dean stanton jeffrey demunn harry terwilligeras harry terwilliger patricia clarkson melinda mooresas melinda moores harry dean stanton toot-tootas toot-toot dabbs greer old paul edgecombas old paul edgecomb eve brent elaine connellyas elaine connelly william sadler klaus detterickas klaus detterick mack miles orderly hectoras orderly hector (as mack c. miles) rai tasco man in nursing homeas man in nursing home director frank darabont writers stephen king(novel) frank darabont(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options storyline edit death row guards at a penitentiary, in the 1930's, have a moral dilemma with their job when they discover one of their prisoners, a convicted murderer, has a special gift. ?guy johns death row inmategood versus evilprison guarddeath rowaccused of murder403 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines miracles do happen. genres crime drama fantasy mystery certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia according to one of the featurettes on the dvd, stephen king called this film the single most faithful adaptation of his work. goofs although the voltage used for electric chair executions (2450 volts) would not be high enough to cause a current flow through an unsoaked sponge properly, it will just act as a resistor and limit the amount of current passing through at a time. that is why the electrocution took way longer than the required 15 - 30 seconds. the primary cause of death for del was not via electrocution (brain death or organ failure) but through severe burns when the resistors overheat and caught fire. quotes paul edgecomb: on the day of my judgment, when i stand before god, and he asks me why did i kill one of his true miracles, what am i gonna say? that it was my job? my job? john coffey: you tell god the father it was a kindness you done. i know you hurtin' and worryin', i can feel it on you, but you oughta quit on it now. because i want it over and done. i do. i'm tired, boss. tired of bein' on the road, lonely as a sparrow in the rain. tired of not ever having me a buddy to be with, or tell me where we's coming from or going to, or why. mostly i'm tired of people being ugly to each other. i'm tired of all the pain i feel and hear in the world everyday. there's too much of it. it's like pieces of glass in my head all the time. can you understand? paul edgecomb: yes, john. i think i can. crazy credits there are no opening credits after the title has been shown, followed by the opening scene for place of film. although it is now commonplace for films to not have opening credits, in 1999 it was somewhat rather unusual and it was considered for a trademark of director frank darabont. alternate versions the documentary "walking the mile" (which is included on the dvd) features the making of a scene, where edgecomb and his wife are in a church. that scene is not in the final film. the church is probably the one mentioned by hanks character when he says to melinda that "we missed you in church". connections featured in siskel & ebert & the movies: end of days/tumbleweeds/flawless/toy story 2/all about my mother (1999) soundtracks charmaine written by lew pollack and erno rapee performed by mantovani arranged by ronald binge (uncredited) courtesy of laserlight digital and san juan music group by arrangement with source/q user reviews2k review top review 10/10 this movie can tear emotions out of anyone. i expected this movie to be a normal and i just want to see it for tom hanks but as movie goes through i cry,i laugh and there comes a feeling which can't be described in words. i rate this movie as the best i have ever seen. some moments in the movie makes me hold my bed pillow in the tightest ever grip. i can guarantee that this movie will leave an impression in your mind for a long time. i even say that this movie is better than shawshank redemption.fantastic story, brilliant acting,mind boggling feelings and overall an unforgettable drama. if you have watched 1000 movies and not this then your movie watching journey is incomplete.i will also make sure that even my next generation should watch this one. helpful?327 13 deepaknarwal88 dec 2, 2009 everything that's new on netflix in march everything that's new on netflix in march no need to waste time endlessly browsing?here's the entire lineup of new movies and tv shows streaming on netflix this month. see the full list photos faq22 in the book, wild bill was only 19 years old, why does he look older in the movie? in the scene where percy scares del for a joke, and del trips over brutal's foot, why doesn't brutal apologize to del instead of blaming percy completely for it? is it true that mr. jingles was actually a rat? details edit release date december 10, 1999 (canada) country of origin united states official sites official facebook official site languages english french also known as la ligne verte filming locations tennessee state penitentiary, nashville, tennessee, usa production companies castle rock entertainment darkwoods productions warner bros. see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $60,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $136,801,374 opening weekend us & canada $18,017,152 dec 12, 1999 gross worldwide $286,801,374 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 3 hours 9 minutes color color sound mix dts dolby digital sdds aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news here?s what?s new on netflix in march 2022 mar 25the wrap the studio wanted to cut one of fight club's defining features mar 25slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list list what's next for this year's oscar nominees? see the full list around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
