https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1675434/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_44::the intouchables (2011) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the intouchables original title: intouchables 20112011 14a14a 1h 52m imdb rating 8.5/10 826k your rating rate popularity 499 72 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:19 2 videos 99+ photos biographycomedydrama after he becomes a quadriplegic from a paragliding accident, an aristocrat hires a young man from the projects to be his caregiver.after he becomes a quadriplegic from a paragliding accident, an aristocrat hires a young man from the projects to be his caregiver.after he becomes a quadriplegic from a paragliding accident, an aristocrat hires a young man from the projects to be his caregiver. imdb rating 8.5/10 826k your rating rate popularity 499 72 directors olivier nakache ?ric toledano writers olivier nakache philippe pozzo di borgo(adapted from his autobiographical tale le second souffle) ?ric toledano stars fran?ois cluzet omar sy anne le ny top credits directors olivier nakache ?ric toledano writers olivier nakache philippe pozzo di borgo(adapted from his autobiographical tale le second souffle) ?ric toledano stars fran?ois cluzet omar sy anne le ny see production, box office & company info 788user reviews 323critic reviews 57metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #44 nominated for 1 bafta film award 38 wins & 40 nominations total videos2 trailer 2:19 u.s. version promo 0:35 the intouchables photos127 top cast edit fran?ois cluzet philippeas philippe omar sy drissas driss anne le ny yvonneas yvonne audrey fleurot magalieas magalie jos?phine de meaux la drh soci?t? de coursesas la drh soci?t? de courses clotilde mollet marcelleas marcelle alba ga?a bellugi elisaas elisa cyril mendy adamaas adama salimata kamate fatouas fatou absa diatou toure minaas mina gr?goire oestermann antoineas antoine dominique daguier amie de philippeas amie de philippe fran?ois caron ami de philippeas ami de philippe christian ameri albertas albert thomas soliv?r?s bastien - dit le plumeauas bastien - dit le plumeau (as thomas soliveres) doroth?e bri?re el?onoreas el?onore (as doroth?e briere meritte) marie-laure descoureaux femme de chambreas femme de chambre ?milie caen galeristeas galeriste (as emilie caen) directors olivier nakache ?ric toledano writers olivier nakache philippe pozzo di borgo(adapted from his autobiographical tale le second souffle) ?ric toledano all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.5 whiplash watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options 8.5 american history x watch options storyline edit in paris, the aristocratic and intellectual philippe is a quadriplegic millionaire who is interviewing candidates for the position of his carer, with his red-haired secretary magalie. out of the blue, driss cuts the line of candidates and brings a document from the social security and asks phillipe to sign it to prove that he is seeking a job position so he can receive his unemployment benefit. philippe challenges driss, offering him a trial period of one month to gain experience helping him. then driss can decide whether he would like to stay with him or not. driss accepts the challenge and moves to the mansion, changing the boring life of phillipe and his employees. ?claudio carvalho, rio de janeiro, brazil caregiverclass differencesdisabled personrich poorparagliding119 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines sometimes you have to reach into someone else's world to find out what's missing in your own. genres biography comedy drama certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia although the real-life 'driss' was a young algerian man called abdel, directors ?ric toledano and olivier nakache changed the character's nationality to senegalese, as they had enjoyed working with omar sy on tellement proches (2009), and really wanted him to play the part. sy also had the experience of living in the impoverished french suburbs, just like driss. goofs when the police car first appears behind driss, you can hear a short burst of the siren, which is clearly an american-inspired tone (also used in uk etc.) when the pursuit begins, the police car has the recognizable and correct french siren tone. quotes philippe: my true disability is not having to be in a wheel chair. it's having to be without her. crazy credits five percent of the profits from the film will be donated to the association simon of cyrene - 15 rue de suffren - 75015 paris whose purpose is to create shared living spaces for disabled adults and friends. connections featured in de wereld draait door: episode #7.128 (2012) soundtracks september (maurice white/allee willis/al mckay) performed by earth wind & fire (as earth, wind & fire) user reviews788 review top review 10/10 a magnificent, sensitive movie it's not because i'm french that i appreciated this movie which i've seen twice. too give the really infamous appreciation of the reader from toronto to the french public, qualifying us of a segregationist country is difficult to gulp especially coming from north america which has not a very glorious past on the matter even in recent years. perhaps the commentator should see the movie "the help" to refresh his memory... but what i'd like to say here apart of praising the fabulous interpretation of both leading actors is to remind that this is a true story, it did not come out from the directors and scriptwriter heads. philippe pozzo di borgo born in 51, got a dramatic para-glider accident in the french alps in 1993 being totally deprived of movements from the base of his neck to the tip of his feet. 3 years later his wife died and he was helped out of his depression by abdel sellou his life-aid assistant. he published his terrible story in 2001 under the title "the second breath" (in french "le second souffl?"). the directors have had the compliments of di borgo for the way they adapted his story. if in any way this was biased he would never had accepted the film to be left in that state. the di borgo family is a very old and wealthy family whose origins goes far back in the history of france, and their residence in paris is considered to be one the jewels of the capital at the same level as the hotel de sully in paris. what is shown in the film is exactly what happens everywhere in the world as far as handicapped are concerned: tendency to overwhelm them with pity which is more diminishing them as if their fate is not enough for them to swallow every minute or second each day. the way the racial problem is viewed is properly demonstrated. the police behaves in different ways depending of the color of your skin or your country's origin and sorry to say north america is a very good example of this so perhaps is not a proper judge on this matter.the authors had the courage to state this straightforwardly. the film shows on the contrary how a man with a very limited education at the beginning, a former convict, is capable progressively to change his views, and find in himself at the same time the good samaritan aspects and help with humor and punch, his handicapped boss to find a new belief in his shattered life at 42! at the same time the boss demonstrates an open-mindedness which was not obvious to get not only because of his handicap but because of his origins and his wealth at first. let's not illusion ourselves on the matter, everywhere in the world few wealthy people would accept to have as an aid an ex convict whichever color his skin should be! it's a fantastic lesson of tolerance, and friendship. for just those reason this movie would deserve an oscar or golden globe awards. 09/07/2013 : i've just seen that under "crazy credits" is mentioned that 5% of the revenues of the film will go to an institutions caring for disabled persons. i just don't see what's crazy about that! i find this kind of remark particularly shocking and insulting both for the producers and the actors especially in this case where the story told is a true one.i suggest the administrator to delete that remark or change its qualification. helpful?206 56 jvdesuit1 dec 11, 2011 faq2 is this film based on a book? details edit release date november 2, 2011 (france) country of origin france official site official facebook languages french english also known as intouchables filming locations cabourg, calvados, france production companies quad ten films canal+ see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget ?9,500,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $10,198,820 opening weekend us & canada $103,507 may 27, 2012 gross worldwide $426,588,510 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 52 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news ?coda?: most audiences don?t know it?s a remake ? and that boosted its oscar chances mar 25indiewire princess diana?s death and conspiracy theories explored in mini-series by headline pictures, itineraire productions (exclusive) mar 24variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of intouchables (2011) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
