https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102926/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_22::the silence of the lambs (1991) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the silence of the lambs 19911991 18+18+ 1h 58m imdb rating 8.6/10 1.4m your rating rate popularity 209 50 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:49 7 videos 99+ photos crimedramathriller a young f.b.i. cadet must receive the help of an incarcerated and manipulative cannibal killer to help catch another serial killer, a madman who skins his victims.a young f.b.i. cadet must receive the help of an incarcerated and manipulative cannibal killer to help catch another serial killer, a madman who skins his victims.a young f.b.i. cadet must receive the help of an incarcerated and manipulative cannibal killer to help catch another serial killer, a madman who skins his victims. imdb rating 8.6/10 1.4m your rating rate popularity 209 50 director jonathan demme writers thomas harris(based on the novel by) ted tally(screenplay by) stars jodie foster anthony hopkins lawrence a. bonney top credits director jonathan demme writers thomas harris(based on the novel by) ted tally(screenplay by) stars jodie foster anthony hopkins lawrence a. bonney see production, box office & company info 1.5kuser reviews 245critic reviews 85metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #22 won 5 oscars 69 wins & 51 nominations total videos7 trailer 1:49 official trailer trailer 1:44 the silence of the lambs clip 1:35 'the silence of the lambs' | anniversary mashup clip 3:51 watch like a pro: giancarlo esposito's ultimate villain watchlist video 3:54 giancarlo esposito's ultimate villain watchlist video 2:58 meet hannibal video 2:05 'blockers' movie emoji game photos276 top cast edit jodie foster clarice starlingas clarice starling anthony hopkins dr. hannibal lecteras dr. hannibal lecter lawrence a. bonney fbi instructoras fbi instructor kasi lemmons ardelia mappas ardelia mapp lawrence t. wrentz agent burroughsas agent burroughs scott glenn jack crawfordas jack crawford anthony heald dr. frederick chiltonas dr. frederick chilton frankie faison barneyas barney don brockett friendly psychopathas friendly psychopath frank seals jr. brooding psychopathas brooding psychopath stuart rudin miggsas miggs maria skorobogatov young clariceas young clarice (as masha skorobogatov) jeffrie lane clarice's fatheras clarice's father leib lensky mr. langas mr. lang george 'red' schwartz mr. lang's driveras mr. lang's driver (as red schwartz) jim roche tv evangelistas tv evangelist brooke smith catherine martinas catherine martin ted levine jame gumbas jame gumb director jonathan demme writers thomas harris(based on the novel by) ted tally(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 seven watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.8 inception watch options 6.8 hannibal watch options storyline edit f.b.i. trainee clarice starling (jodie foster) works hard to advance her career, while trying to hide or put behind her west virginia roots, of which if some knew, would automatically classify her as being backward or white trash. after graduation, she aspires to work in the agency's behavioral science unit under the leadership of jack crawford (scott glenn). while she is still a trainee, crawford asks her to question dr. hannibal lecter (sir anthony hopkins), a psychiatrist imprisoned, thus far, for eight years in maximum security isolation for being a serial killer who cannibalized his victims. clarice is able to figure out the assignment is to pick lecter's brains to help them solve another serial murder case, that of someone coined by the media as "buffalo bill" (ted levine), who has so far killed five victims, all located in the eastern u.s., all young women, who are slightly overweight (especially around the hips), all who were drowned in natural bodies of water, and all who were stripped of large swaths of skin. she also figures that crawford chose her, as a woman, to be able to trigger some emotional response from lecter. after speaking to lecter for the first time, she realizes that everything with him will be a psychological game, with her often having to read between the very cryptic lines he provides. she has to decide how much she will play along, as his request in return for talking to him is to expose herself emotionally to him. the case takes a more dire turn when a sixth victim is discovered, this one from who they are able to retrieve a key piece of evidence, if lecter is being forthright as to its meaning. a potential seventh victim is high profile catherine martin (brooke smith), the daughter of senator ruth martin (diane baker), which places greater scrutiny on the case as they search for a hopefully still alive catherine. who may factor into what happens is dr. frederick chilton (anthony heald), the warden at the prison, an opportunist who sees the higher profile with catherine, meaning a higher profile for himself if he can insert himself successfully into the proceedings. ?huggo serial killerpsycho thrillerstuck in a wellpsychopathbad guy wins311 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines dr. hannibal lecter. brilliant. cunning. psychotic. in his mind lies the clue to a ruthless killer. - clarice starling, fbi. brilliant. vulnerable. alone. she must trust him to stop the killer. genres crime drama thriller certificate 18+ parents guide did you know edit trivia (at around 17 mins) jodie foster claims that during the first meeting between dr. hannibal lecter and clarice starling, sir anthony hopkins's mocking of her southern accent was improvised on the spot. foster's horrified reaction was genuine since she felt personally attacked. she later thanked hopkins for generating such an honest reaction. goofs (at around 44 mins) as forensics comes to take photos of the victim's body, the "corpse" visibly blinks as hands touch its face. quotes hannibal lecter: a census taker once tried to test me. i ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti. crazy credits after the copyright notice and mpaa logo, a logo appears with the text "a luta continua". this is not a production company credit; instead, it's portuguese for "the struggle continues" ("to be continued"). alternate versions the finnish-dubbed vhs version removes: hannibal lecter beating pembry against the cell's bars, and spraying liquid to his eyes (along with the shots of the cuffed guard screaming "jesus christ!", and a shot of him trying to break loose). lecter beating a guard with a nightstick several times (reduced from 6 hits to 1!). a outdrawn sequence that comes right after lecter has whacked the guards (where he plays music and walks across the dead guard's body) is completely removed (along with lecter's dialogue ready when you are, sergeant pembry). right after buffalo bill is shot by clarice starling there is a long-lasting (about 15 secs) shot of his bloody dead body, that in the cut version is not that long anymore. connections edited into a-z of horror (1997) soundtracks american girl performed by tom petty & the heartbreakers (as tom petty and the heartbreakers) written by tom petty (as t. petty) courtesy of gone gator records user reviews1.5k review top review absolutely brilliant. sweeping all five major academy awards ("oscars" for best movie, director, actor, actress, screenplay) is quite an accomplishment. doing it nearly a year after a film was released is a miracle considering the notoriously short attention span of oscar voters. it is a powerful example of how great a movie can be when superb writers, directors, actors, and others work at the top of their craft. `silence of the lambs' is the story of a young fbi trainee clarice starling (jodie foster) who is summoned to help find one serial killer called `buffalo bill.' by interviewing another. foster's performance is absolutely brilliant. while anthony hopkins receives most of the (well-deserved) praise for his chilling portrayal of incarcerated serial killer `hannibal ?the cannibal' lector', it is foster's performance that holds the movie together. the fear she shows just behind her eyes makes clarice's outward courage all the more interesting and vulnerable. this is the perfect way to play the part because it explains lector's interest in clarice. her only bargaining chip in getting lector's help is to let him `feed' on her innermost secrets and fears in exchange for his brilliant insights into the psychotic mind. the title of the movie comes from these exchanges and is very poignant. director jonathan demme is masterful. there is one scene late in the movie that i will not spoil. it is one of the most simply brilliant scenes ever staged in a movie. i don't know if all the credit goes to demme or the writers, but there is a moment in the film where the suspense builds beautifully to a what seems to be a common movie scene. however, through skillful timing of the direction, the audiences assumptions are used against them and when the truth is revealed (hint: it involves a doorbell) it is shocking and induced a collective gasp from the audience i saw it with at the theatre. it set the stage for an edge-of-your seat climax. do not miss this movie. the movie is incredibly suspenseful and an absolute must see. helpful?476 98 scudder-3 feb 19, 1999 faq24 why do dr chilton and barney make a point of telling clarice not to touch or approach the glass housing dr lecter? wouldn't she be perfectly safe since he obviously can't reach her? why does dr. lecter think the guy ejaculating in his hand throwing the result in clarice's face crosses a line while he would do much more awful things to people himself? can someone actually swallow their tongue like miggs did? details edit release date february 14, 1991 (canada) country of origin united states official site official facebook languages english latin also known as le silence des agneaux filming locations bimini airport, south bimini island, bimini islands, bahamas production companies strong heart/demme production orion pictures see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $19,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $130,742,922 opening weekend us & canada $13,766,814 feb 18, 1991 gross worldwide $272,742,922 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 58 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital dolby stereo aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news the well scenes in silence of the lambs sometimes got a little too real mar 30slash film for stanley kubrick, 2001: a space odyssey was far from science fiction mar 29slash film contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of the silence of the lambs (1991) in india? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
