https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060196/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_10::the good, the bad and the ugly (1966) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the good, the bad and the ugly original title: il buono, il brutto, il cattivo 19661966 14+14+ 2h 41m imdb rating 8.8/10 738k your rating rate popularity 575 38 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer3:16 3 videos 99+ photos adventurewestern a bounty hunting scam joins two men in an uneasy alliance against a third in a race to find a fortune in gold buried in a remote cemetery.a bounty hunting scam joins two men in an uneasy alliance against a third in a race to find a fortune in gold buried in a remote cemetery.a bounty hunting scam joins two men in an uneasy alliance against a third in a race to find a fortune in gold buried in a remote cemetery. imdb rating 8.8/10 738k your rating rate popularity 575 38 director sergio leone writers luciano vincenzoni(story) sergio leone(story) agenore incrocci(screenplay) stars clint eastwood eli wallach lee van cleef top credits director sergio leone writers luciano vincenzoni(story) sergio leone(story) agenore incrocci(screenplay) stars clint eastwood eli wallach lee van cleef see production, box office & company info 1.2kuser reviews 151critic reviews 90metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #10 awards 3 wins & 6 nominations videos3 trailer 3:16 the good, the bad and the ugly trailer 3:24 the good, the bad and the ugly clip 4:02 "the mandalorian" takes star wars to wild west of space photos307 top cast edit clint eastwood blondieas blondie eli wallach tucoas tuco lee van cleef sentenzaas sentenza? aldo giuffr? alcoholic union captainas alcoholic union captain luigi pistilli father pablo ramirezas father pablo ramirez rada rassimov mariaas maria enzo petito storekeeperas storekeeper claudio scarchilli mexican peonas mexican peon john bartha sheriffas sheriff (as john bartho) livio lorenzon bakeras baker antonio casale jacksonas jackson? sandro scarchilli mexican peonas mexican peon benito stefanelli member of angel eyes' gangas member of angel eyes' gang angelo novi monkas monk antonio casas stevensas stevens aldo sambrell member of angel eyes' gangas member of angel eyes' gang al mulock one-armed bounty hunteras one-armed bounty hunter (as al mulloch) sergio mendiz?bal blonde bounty hunteras blonde bounty hunter (as sergio mendizabal) director sergio leone writers luciano vincenzoni(story) (screenplay) sergio leone(story) (screenplay) agenore incrocci(screenplay) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.3 for a few dollars more watch options 9.0 12 angry men watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 9.0 the godfather: part ii watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.9 the lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.5 once upon a time in the west watch options 7.9 for a fistful of dollars watch options storyline edit blondie, the good (clint eastwood), is a professional gunslinger who is out trying to earn a few dollars. angel eyes, the bad (lee van cleef), is a hitman who always commits to a task and sees it through--as long as he's paid to do so. and tuco, the ugly (eli wallach), is a wanted outlaw trying to take care of his own hide. tuco and blondie share a partnership making money off of tuco's bounty, but when blondie unties the partnership, tuco tries to hunt down blondie. when blondie and tuco come across a horse carriage loaded with dead bodies, they soon learn from the only survivor, bill carson (antonio casale), that he and a few other men have buried a stash of gold in a cemetery. unfortunately, carson dies and tuco only finds out the name of the cemetery, while blondie finds out the name on the grave. now the two must keep each other alive in order to find the gold. angel eyes (who had been looking for bill carson) discovers that tuco and blondie met with carson and knows they know where the gold is; now he needs them to lead him to it. now the good, the bad, and the ugly must all battle it out to get their hands on $200,000.00 worth of gold. ?jeremy thomson shootoutspaghetti westernman with no namecivil warthird in trilogy223 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines they formed an alliance of hate to steal a fortune in dead man's gold genres adventure western certificate 14+ parents guide did you know edit trivia according to eli wallach, when it came time to blow up the bridge, sergio leone asked the spanish army captain in charge to trigger the fuse, as a sign of gratitude for the army's collaboration. they agreed to blow up the bridge when leone gave the signal "vai!" (go!) over the walkie-talkie. unfortunately, another crew member spoke on the same channel, saying the words "vai, vai!", meaning "it's okay, proceed" to a second crew member. the captain heard this signal, thought it was for him, and blew up the bridge. unfortunately, no cameras were running at the time. leone was so upset that he fired the crewman, who promptly fled from the set in his car. the captain was so sorry for what happened that he proposed to leone that the army would rebuild the bridge to blow it up again, with one condition: that the fired crewman be re-hired. leone agreed, the crewman was forgiven, the bridge was rebuilt, and the scene was successfully shot. goofs you can see a car passing by in the background when tuco is balancing on the cross on the graveyard in the end of the movie. quotes blondie: you see, in this world there's two kinds of people, my friend: those with loaded guns and those who dig. you dig. crazy credits although eli wallach has the most screen time and is one of the titular characters, he is credited as "...and eli wallach in the role of tuco" after all the other actors' names appear. alternate versions syndicated on us tv in 2006 as a 95-minute truncated version, missing almost half of its original length. connections edited into bellissimo: immagini del cinema italiano (1985) soundtracks the story of a soldier by tommie connor user reviews1.2k review top review 10/10 the good, the better, the best the good, the bad and the ugly or the good, the better and the best, as i prefer calling it, is a bizarrely sublime and a uniquely aesthetic masterpiece. the actors in title roles have given such extraordinarily superb performances, that it would be impertinent and disparaging to merely regard their swell work as acting. in fact their brilliant portrayals have immortalized blondie, sentenza/ angel eyes and the enigmatic tuco. lee van cleef is fiendishly unforgiving as the merciless angel eyes. clint eastwood is rugged yet suave, cocky yet adorable as laconic cigar-smoker blondie, a role that laid the foundations of his illustrious career. but it is eli wallach, who steals the show with his captivating portrayal of tuco, a portrayal that is as entrancing as it is enlightening. wallach is amusing, capricious, nonchalant, uncanny and yet tenacious as tuco, perturbed by his insecurities and dampened by his solitude. it is the tacit amicability between blondie and tuco and their mutual hostility towards the evil angel eyes owing to the vestiges of virtue present in them, redolent of their moribund morality, which gives the story, the impetus and the characters, a screen presence that is not only awe inspiring but also unparalleled. sergio leone's magnificent and ingenious direction in synergy with ennio morricone's surreal music, tonino delli colli's breathtaking cinematography and joe d'augustine's punctilious editing makes the movie, a treat to watch and ineffably unforgettable. initially aimed to be a tongue-in-cheek satire on run-of-the-mill westerns, the good, the bad and the ugly, continues to stand the test of time in its endeavor to attain apotheosis (if it hasn't attained it yet). it will always be remembered as european cinema's greatest lagniappe, not only to the western genre, but to the world of cinema. it's a must watch for any movie lover. 10/10 helpful?184 20 murtaza_mma feb 19, 2009 faq20 is the good, the bad and the ugly a prequel to the two other eastwood spaghetti westerns? what was the large battle depicted later in the movie when the bridge was blown? was it based on an actual battle? during the detonation of the bridge, you can see an object flying towards blondie and tuco in their bunker. it hits a sandbag about 0.8 meters to the right of blondie and you can see the actor jump when it hits. were the actors in danger? the object seems to be heavy like a rock and about the size of a softball. another meter to the left and blondie would have been hit dead center. details edit release date december 23, 1966 (italy) countries of origin italy spain west germany language italian also known as le bon, la brute et le truand filming locations carazo, burgos, castilla y le?n, spain production companies produzioni europee associate (pea) arturo gonz?lez producciones cinematogr?ficas constantin film see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $1,200,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $25,100,000 gross worldwide $25,253,887 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 41 minutes color color sound mix mono aspect ratio 2.35 : 1 related news the other wild west in the spanish desert ? photo essay mar 14the guardian - film news february 8th genre releases include student body (blu-ray / dvd), the antichrist aka the tempter (blu-ray / dvd), resident evil: welcome to raccoon city (4k steelbook / 4k / blu-ray / dvd) feb 8dailydead contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of il buono, il brutto, il cattivo (1966) in australia? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
