https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0468569/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_3::the dark knight (2008) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the dark knight 20082008 pgpg 2h 32m imdb rating 9.1/10 2.5m your rating rate popularity 34 14 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer0:33 31 videos 99+ photos actioncrimedrama when the menace known as the joker wreaks havoc and chaos on the people of gotham, batman must accept one of the greatest psychological and physical tests of his ability to fight injustice.when the menace known as the joker wreaks havoc and chaos on the people of gotham, batman must accept one of the greatest psychological and physical tests of his ability to fight injustice.when the menace known as the joker wreaks havoc and chaos on the people of gotham, batman must accept one of the greatest psychological and physical tests of his ability to fight injustice. imdb rating 9.1/10 2.5m your rating rate popularity 34 14 director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) david s. goyer(story) stars christian bale heath ledger aaron eckhart top credits director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) david s. goyer(story) stars christian bale heath ledger aaron eckhart see production, box office & company info 8kuser reviews 432critic reviews 84metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #3 won 2 oscars 159 wins & 163 nominations total videos31 trailer 0:33 dvd trailer clip 2:03 a guide to the films of christopher nolan clip 3:37 the biggest supervillain movies and who's coming next clip 4:46 is the new 'joker' most like jared, heath, or jack? clip 3:36 how 'the batman' could connect to 'joker' clip 4:00 holy martin scorsese! 'joker' is new 'king of comedy' clip 1:48 will ferrell and john c. reilly solve movie mysteries clip 2:39 what we know about 'joker' ... so far clip 0:56 the dark knight clip 0:44 the dark knight clip 0:51 the dark knight clip 0:44 the dark knight photos640 top cast edit christian bale bruce wayneas bruce wayne heath ledger jokeras joker aaron eckhart harvey dentas harvey dent michael caine alfredas alfred maggie gyllenhaal rachelas rachel gary oldman gordonas gordon morgan freeman lucius foxas lucius fox monique gabriela curnen ramirezas ramirez ron dean wuertzas wuertz cillian murphy scarecrowas scarecrow chin han lauas lau nestor carbonell mayoras mayor eric roberts maronias maroni ritchie coster chechenas chechen anthony michael hall engelas engel keith szarabajka stephensas stephens colin mcfarlane loebas loeb joshua harto reeseas reese director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) (story) david s. goyer(story) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.4 the dark knight rises watch options 8.3 batman begins watch options 8.4 joker watch options 9.3 the shawshank redemption watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 9.2 the godfather watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options 8.4 avengers: endgame watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options storyline edit set within a year after the events of batman begins (2005), batman, lieutenant james gordon, and new district attorney harvey dent successfully begin to round up the criminals that plague gotham city, until a mysterious and sadistic criminal mastermind known only as "the joker" appears in gotham, creating a new wave of chaos. batman's struggle against the joker becomes deeply personal, forcing him to "confront everything he believes" and improve his technology to stop him. a love triangle develops between bruce wayne, dent, and rachel dawes. ?leon lombardi dc comicsmoral dilemmapsychopathclownsuperhero786 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines why so serious? genres action crime drama thriller certificate pg parents guide did you know edit trivia in sir michael caine's opinion, heath ledger beat the odds and topped jack nicholson's joker from batman (1989): "jack was like a clown figure, benign but wicked, maybe a killer old uncle. he could be funny and make you laugh. heath's gone in a completely different direction to jack, he's like a really scary psychopath. he's a lovely guy and his joker is going to be a hell of a revelation in this picture." caine bases this belief on a scene where the joker pays a visit to bruce wayne's penthouse. he'd never met ledger before, so when ledger arrived and performed, he gave caine such a fright, he forgot his lines. goofs it is said that all of the license plates seen on cars in the film are illinois plates. in fact, they're not: they are actually plates for the fictional gotham, although they resemble illinois plates. the "gotham" plates that were created by film makers were made to look like illinois plates, just in case some slipped through in background shots during filming in chicago. quotes the chechen: [during a private sit down meeting with the gangsters] what do you propose? the joker: it's simple. we, uh, kill the batman. [mobsters laugh] salvatore maroni: if it's so simple, why haven't you done it already? the joker: if you're good at something, never do it for free. crazy credits large blue flames dissipate in the center to form the new batman symbol. the film title does not appear until the the closing credits. alternate versions the blu-ray version of the movie has several of the big action scenes and high altitude photography scenes in ordinary 16:9 (1.78:1) widescreen ratio while the rest of the movie preserves the "scope" format (2.39:1). this is because these scenes were filmed in imax, whose format is 1.43:1, thus attempting to recreate the effect witnessed in imax theaters, as well as preserving as much of these shots as possible. connections edited into buba shel medina: episode #2.1 (2013) soundtracks balmoral performed by the pipes and drums of the chicago police department user reviews8k review top review 10/10 the dark knight totally one of the greatest movie titles ever made. everything was great, filming, acting, story. nothing to complain about helpful?174 16 elmerivikki jan 9, 2021 faq80 who created the character of batman? bob kane is listed in old (pre-2015) media including the comic books as creating batman on his own but new media (made after 2015) shows him as co-creating the character with someone called bill finger, so what's all that about? which characters were adapted from the batman comic books? is there any archive footage in the film? details edit release date july 18, 2008 (canada) countries of origin united states united kingdom official site facebook languages english mandarin also known as le chevalier noir filming locations chicago, illinois, usa production companies warner bros. legendary entertainment syncopy see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $185,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $534,987,076 opening weekend us & canada $158,411,483 jul 20, 2008 gross worldwide $1,006,102,277 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 32 minutes sound mix dolby digital sdds dts aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news how joker would have played a role in the dark knight rises mar 30slash film batman live-action villains, ranked by special fx makeup mar 29screenrant.com contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
