https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0482571/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_41::the prestige (2006) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the prestige 20062006 14a14a 2h 10m imdb rating 8.5/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 185 59 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:35 19 videos 99+ photos dramamysterythriller after a tragic accident, two stage magicians in 1890s london engage in a battle to create the ultimate illusion while sacrificing everything they have to outwit each other.after a tragic accident, two stage magicians in 1890s london engage in a battle to create the ultimate illusion while sacrificing everything they have to outwit each other.after a tragic accident, two stage magicians in 1890s london engage in a battle to create the ultimate illusion while sacrificing everything they have to outwit each other. imdb rating 8.5/10 1.3m your rating rate popularity 185 59 director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) christopher priest(novel) stars christian bale hugh jackman scarlett johansson top credits director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) christopher priest(novel) stars christian bale hugh jackman scarlett johansson see production, box office & company info 1.6kuser reviews 363critic reviews 66metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #41 nominated for 2 oscars 6 wins & 45 nominations total videos19 trailer 2:35 official trailer trailer 2:33 the prestige: 10th anniversary clip 1:20 'the prestige' | anniversary mashup clip 2:03 a guide to the films of christopher nolan clip 0:52 the prestige clip 0:20 the prestige clip 0:20 the prestige clip 0:27 the prestige clip 1:18 the prestige clip 0:41 the prestige clip 1:23 the prestige clip 0:46 the prestige photos160 top cast edit christian bale alfred bordenas alfred borden hugh jackman robert angieras robert angier scarlett johansson olivia wenscombeas olivia wenscombe michael caine cutteras cutter piper perabo julia mcculloughas julia mccullough rebecca hall sarahas sarah samantha mahurin jessas jess david bowie teslaas tesla andy serkis alleyas alley daniel davis judgeas judge jim piddock prosecutoras prosecutor christopher neame defenderas defender mark ryan captainas captain roger rees owensas owens jamie harris sullen warderas sullen warder monty stuart stagecoach driveras stagecoach driver ron perkins hotel manageras hotel manager ricky jay miltonas milton director christopher nolan writers jonathan nolan(screenplay) christopher nolan(screenplay) christopher priest(novel) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 memento watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 8.2 shutter island watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.3 inglourious basterds watch options storyline edit in the end of the nineteenth century, in london, robert angier, his beloved wife julia mccullough, and alfred borden are friends and assistants of a magician. when julia accidentally dies during a performance, robert blames alfred for her death, and they become enemies. both become famous and rival magicians, sabotaging the performance of the other on the stage. when alfred performs a successful trick, robert becomes obsessed trying to disclose the secret of his competitor with tragic consequences. ?claudio carvalho, rio de janeiro, brazil illusionmagicianrivalrymagicdeath by drowning351 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines a friendship that became a rivalry. genres drama mystery thriller certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia chung ling soo was a stage character created by william ellsworth robinson, a white man who disguised himself as a chinese man to cash in on audiences' enthusiasm for the exotic. robinson lived as chung, never breaking character while in public. he died in march 1918, when a bullet-catch trick went wrong. "my god, i've been shot" were both his last words and the first english he had spoken on stage in nineteen years. goofs when angier visits tesla in february, it is obviously winter, with snow on the ground. yet after a brief meeting they venture out to a balcony, where it is summer, with green foliage, and no breath visible. quotes cutter: every great magic trick consists of three parts or acts. the first part is called "the pledge". the magician shows you something ordinary: a deck of cards, a bird or a man. he shows you this object. perhaps he asks you to inspect it to see if it is indeed real, unaltered, normal. but of course... it probably isn't. the second act is called "the turn". the magician takes the ordinary something and makes it do something extraordinary. now you're looking for the secret... but you won't find it, because of course you're not really looking. you don't really want to know. you want to be fooled. but you wouldn't clap yet. because making something disappear isn't enough; you have to bring it back. that's why every magic trick has a third act, the hardest part, the part we call "the prestige"." connections featured in siskel & ebert & the movies: the prestige/flicka/marie antoinette/a guide to recognizing your saints (2006) soundtracks drinkin' down the rose & crown composed by keith nichols courtesy of apm user reviews1.6k review top review 10/10 just as intriguing the second time, too! i've seen this film twice now - about a year ago and then yesterday - and thoroughly enjoyed it both times, even the second time when i remembered some of those fantastic twists in the last half hour. sometimes it's even more fun to view a film like this when you know a few things, because earlier scenes take on new meaning. it's not an easy film to totally digest, even with two viewings, because that ending has some mind-boggling revelations. without having to resort to spoilers, let me just say the story is extremely interesting, the acting very good, the period pieces fun to view and it's a pretty clean movie so grandma can also enjoy it, too, without language or sex concerns. basically, it's a story about obsession between two magicians in the last decade of the 19th century. they continually try to top one another and things get nasty along the way. hugh jackman and christian bale are both fun to watch in those roles, as are michael caine and scarlett johansson in supporting roles. this is one movie guaranteed to have you thinking about it when it's over! helpful?142 32 ccthemovieman-1 sep 29, 2008 faq27 what is 'the prestige' about? is "the prestige" based on a book? who or what is the "prestige"? details edit release date october 20, 2006 (canada) countries of origin united states united kingdom language english also known as le prestige filming locations durango and silverton narrow gauge railroad, colorado, usa production companies touchstone pictures warner bros. pictures group newmarket films see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $40,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $53,089,891 opening weekend us & canada $14,801,808 oct 22, 2006 gross worldwide $109,676,311 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 10 minutes color color sound mix sdds dolby digital dts aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news link tank: why the prestige is christopher nolan?s most underrated movie jan 6den of geek amazon prime video new releases: january 2022 jan 1den of geek contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
