https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0111161/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_1::the shawshank redemption (1994) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the shawshank redemption 19941994 14a14a 2h 22m imdb rating 9.3/10 2.6m your rating rate popularity 62 16 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:11 5 videos 99+ photos drama two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency. imdb rating 9.3/10 2.6m your rating rate popularity 62 16 director frank darabont writers stephen king(based on the short novel "rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption" by) frank darabont(screenplay by) stars tim robbins morgan freeman bob gunton top credits director frank darabont writers stephen king(based on the short novel "rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption" by) frank darabont(screenplay by) stars tim robbins morgan freeman bob gunton see production, box office & company info 10kuser reviews 194critic reviews 81metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #1 nominated for 7 oscars 21 wins & 43 nominations total videos5 trailer 2:11 official trailer clip 8:43 guillermo del toro and neil gaiman find hope in powerful, eclectic films video 1:55 what jack from 'titanic' was really thinking, according to phoebe robinson video 2:25 who else almost starred in 'the shawshank redemption?' video 2:22 roles that tom cruise turned down photos316 top cast edit tim robbins andy dufresneas andy dufresne morgan freeman ellis boyd 'red' reddingas ellis boyd 'red' redding bob gunton warden nortonas warden norton william sadler heywoodas heywood clancy brown captain hadleyas captain hadley gil bellows tommyas tommy mark rolston bogs diamondas bogs diamond james whitmore brooks hatlenas brooks hatlen jeffrey demunn 1946 d.a.as 1946 d.a. larry brandenburg skeetas skeet neil giuntoli jiggeras jigger brian libby floydas floyd david proval snoozeas snooze joseph ragno ernieas ernie jude ciccolella guard mertas guard mert paul mccrane guard troutas guard trout renee blaine andy dufresne's wifeas andy dufresne's wife scott mann glenn quentinas glenn quentin director frank darabont writers stephen king(based on the short novel "rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption" by) frank darabont(screenplay by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro 'the shawshank redemption' without morgan freeman? 'the shawshank redemption' without morgan freeman? the shawshank redemption has become a classic film - it's even imdb's top-rated movie of all time - but did you know it almost had an entirely different cast behind those legendary bars? who almost starred? 2:25 more like this 9.2 the godfather watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 9.1 the dark knight watch options 8.8 inception watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.7 interstellar watch options 9.0 the godfather: part ii watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.6 seven watch options 9.0 the lord of the rings: the return of the king watch options storyline edit chronicles the experiences of a formerly successful banker as a prisoner in the gloomy jailhouse of shawshank after being found guilty of a crime he did not commit. the film portrays the man's unique way of dealing with his new, torturous life; along the way he befriends a number of fellow prisoners, most notably a wise long-term inmate named red. ?j-s-golden wrongful imprisonmentprisonbased on the works of stephen kingescape from prisonvoice over narration378 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines fear can hold you prisoner. hope can set you free. genre drama certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia andy and red's opening chat in the prison yard, in which red is throwing a baseball, took nine hours to shoot. morgan freeman threw the baseball for the entire nine hours without a word of complaint. he showed up for work the next day with his left arm in a sling. goofs circa 1963, heywood is shown listening to the record "24 of hank williams' greatest hits", released in 1970. quotes andy dufresne: [to red] i guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. get busy living, or get busy dying. crazy credits the man who cried and was beaten when andy first arrived is listed and credited as "fat ass" -- the other inmates' nickname for him. alternate versions this film was produced independently by castle rock entertainment, but distributed by columbia pictures, which placed their logo at the beginning of the film. after the first video release, castle rock began to use warner bros. as their distributor. this film was then later re-issued on video and dvd by warner bros., which replaced the columbia pictures logo with their own. (the 1999 wb dvd uses no studio logo before castle rock [a turner company], and has no columbia line-art logo at the end, just 10 seconds of blank screen as the music finishes. the 2004 wb dvd and theatrical rerelease, and 2010 blu-ray, start with a very modern wb logo and an updated castle rock logo [a timewarner company], and have the columbia line-art logo in the crawl at the end followed by a quick, still, older wb logo. see also the american president.) connections featured in siskel & ebert & the movies: why gump? why now? (1994) soundtracks if i didn't care by jack lawrence performed by the ink spots courtesy of mca records user reviews10k review top review 9/10 a popular film that deserves its popularity if you like hopeful, surprising, never-seen-before characters, you will enjoy this amusing story of a family of prisoners victimized by the system and a bible thumping pig. robbins and freeman, and everybody else, gives perfect performances for their characters. their actions and body languages are perfect for this story and movie. helpful?92 11 james-in-ab apr 2, 2021 everything that's new on netflix in march everything that's new on netflix in march no need to waste time endlessly browsing?here's the entire lineup of new movies and tv shows streaming on netflix this month. see the full list photos faq38 does the novella explain why fat ass is in prison? he seems too much like a cry baby to have committed any crimes. why does andy talk in code to red at the movie about getting rita hayworth since they have already done business before and andy asked for the rock hammer in the same way? hadley seems more brutal than percy wetmore from the green mile. why was hadley such a jerk? details edit release date october 14, 1994 (united states) country of origin united states official sites india, noida is a general experience in itself. escorts agency. official facebook language english also known as ? l'ombre de shawshank filming locations 127a smithfield road, frederiksted, virgin islands production company castle rock entertainment see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $25,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $28,767,189 opening weekend us & canada $727,327 sep 25, 1994 gross worldwide $28,884,504 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 22 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news here?s what?s new on netflix in march 2022 mar 25the wrap how will packer plans to revive the oscars: ?this is the year? mar 23variety film + tv contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of the shawshank redemption (1994) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
