https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253474/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_34::the pianist (2002) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the pianist 20022002 aaaa 2h 30m imdb rating 8.6/10 800k your rating rate popularity 424 45 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer1:21 1 video 99+ photos biographydramamusic a polish jewish musician struggles to survive the destruction of the warsaw ghetto of world war ii.a polish jewish musician struggles to survive the destruction of the warsaw ghetto of world war ii.a polish jewish musician struggles to survive the destruction of the warsaw ghetto of world war ii. imdb rating 8.6/10 800k your rating rate popularity 424 45 director roman polanski writers ronald harwood(screenplay by) wladyslaw szpilman(based on the book by) stars adrien brody thomas kretschmann frank finlay top credits director roman polanski writers ronald harwood(screenplay by) wladyslaw szpilman(based on the book by) stars adrien brody thomas kretschmann frank finlay see production, box office & company info 1kuser reviews 140critic reviews 85metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #34 won 3 oscars 57 wins & 74 nominations total videos1 trailer 1:21 the pianist photos199 top cast edit adrien brody wladyslaw szpilmanas wladyslaw szpilman thomas kretschmann captain wilm hosenfeldas captain wilm hosenfeld frank finlay fatheras father emilia fox dorotaas dorota michal zebrowski jurekas jurek ed stoppard henrykas henryk maureen lipman motheras mother jessica kate meyer halinaas halina julia rayner reginaas regina wanja mues ss slapping fatheras ss slapping father richard ridings mr. lipaas mr. lipa nomi sharron feather womanas feather woman anthony milner man waiting to crossas man waiting to cross lucy skeaping street musicianas street musician (as lucie skeaping) roddy skeaping street musicianas street musician ben harlan street musicianas street musician thomas lawinky schutzpolizeias schutzpolizei joachim paul assb?ck schutzpolizeias schutzpolizei director roman polanski writers ronald harwood(screenplay by) wladyslaw szpilman(based on the book by) all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 9.0 schindler's list watch options 8.6 life is beautiful watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options 8.6 saving private ryan watch options 8.5 american history x watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.5 the intouchables watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options storyline edit in this adaptation of the autobiography "the pianist: the extraordinary true story of one man's survival in warsaw, 1939-1945," wladyslaw szpilman, a polish jewish radio station pianist, sees warsaw change gradually as world war ii begins. szpilman is forced into the warsaw ghetto, but is later separated from his family during operation reinhard. from this time until the concentration camp prisoners are released, szpilman hides in various locations among the ruins of warsaw. ?jwelch5742 pianistholocaustsurvivalnazi occupied polandperson in a wheelchair falls from height174 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines music was his passion. survival was his masterpiece. genres biography drama music war certificate aa parents guide did you know edit trivia during the shooting of the movie, while scouting locations in krakow, roman polanski met a man who had helped polanski's family survive the war. goofs when szpilman is playing in the closing scenes, the piano's "steinway & sons" logo is the style first used in the 1990s. quotes wladyslaw szpilman: what are you reading? henryk szpilman: "if you prick us, do we not bleed? it you tickle us, we we not laugh? if you poison us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?" wladyslaw szpilman: [seeing that it is shakespeare's the merchant of venice] very appropriate. crazy credits aside from the universal and focus features credits, there are no opening credits. all credits, including the title, appear at the end of the film. connections featured in the making of 'the pianist' (2003) soundtracks nocturne in c# minor, posthumous (1830) written by fr?d?ric chopin (as fryderyk chopin) user reviews1k review top review 9/10 brilliantly narrated, visually stunning! polanski has depicted the gory details of the holocaust without much restraint. but, the most wonderful aspect of the film is that the director has not lost focus of his story and instead of focusing too much on the holocaust horror he has weaved the true-life narrative of survival around devillish happenings. every single act of escapade szpilman goes through is depicted like a drop of water on a barren desert. however, the oasis in the driest desert comes in the end and it is here that polanski captures the essence of human emotion. i had this very strong urge of jumping into the theater screen and magically adopting a character in the movie and doing something about the helplesness portrayed so convincingly. overall, polanski has given a stunning visual narrative of the cold war. survival indeed is a privilege though it is taken for granted today. performances by brody, kretschmann deserve applause. pawel edelman's camera work is moving and he has brilliantly captured the dark sadness in the visual canvas in an effective way. the lighting is amazing. pre-dawn shooting schedule could have helped a great deal. herv? de luze's editing work has ensured that the narrative does not slip away from focus. most notable is the scene where the human bodies are lit on fire and the camera raises to show the smoke. the darkness of the smoke is enhanced and is used effectively to fade the scene out. the scene where brody's fingers move as he rests his hands on the bars of the tram handle only goes to show the brilliance of polanski as a film-maker. great film that will be in the running for this year's oscars. i will give it a 9 out of 10. helpful?140 41 ashcoounter feb 1, 2003 faq17 is the woman with the feather hat that asks szpilman if he has seen her husband and to write to her if he does, based on a real person? is 'the pianist' based on a book? what song was szpilman playing when... details edit release date january 24, 2003 (canada) countries of origin france poland germany united kingdom official sites focus features (united states) official facebook languages english german russian also known as le pianiste filming locations instalator?w, ochota, warsaw, mazowieckie, poland production companies r.p. productions heritage films studio babelsberg see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $35,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $32,572,577 opening weekend us & canada $111,261 dec 29, 2002 gross worldwide $120,072,577 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 2 hours 30 minutes color color sound mix dts dolby digital aspect ratio 1.85 : 1 related news from the slap to the streaker: the 10 most shocking moments in oscars history mar 28rollingstone.com oscars: another split between best picture and best director? mar 27gold derby contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content imdb answers: help fill gaps in our data learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
