https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114814/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_39::the usual suspects (1995) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) the usual suspects 19951995 14a14a 1h 46m imdb rating 8.5/10 1.1m your rating rate popularity 383 5 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:25 1 video 99+ photos crimedramamystery a sole survivor tells of the twisty events leading up to a horrific gun battle on a boat, which began when five criminals met at a seemingly random police lineup.a sole survivor tells of the twisty events leading up to a horrific gun battle on a boat, which began when five criminals met at a seemingly random police lineup.a sole survivor tells of the twisty events leading up to a horrific gun battle on a boat, which began when five criminals met at a seemingly random police lineup. imdb rating 8.5/10 1.1m your rating rate popularity 383 5 director bryan singer writer christopher mcquarrie stars kevin spacey gabriel byrne chazz palminteri top credits director bryan singer writer christopher mcquarrie stars kevin spacey gabriel byrne chazz palminteri see production, box office & company info 1.4kuser reviews 147critic reviews 77metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #39 won 2 oscars 37 wins & 17 nominations total videos1 trailer 2:25 the usual suspects photos147 top cast edit kevin spacey verbalas verbal gabriel byrne keatonas keaton chazz palminteri dave kujanas dave kujan stephen baldwin mcmanusas mcmanus benicio del toro fensteras fenster kevin pollak hockneyas hockney pete postlethwaite kobayashias kobayashi suzy amis edie finneranas edie finneran giancarlo esposito jack baeras jack baer dan hedaya jeff rabinas jeff rabin paul bartel smuggleras smuggler carl bressler saul bergas saul berg phillipe simon fortieras fortier jack shearer renaultas renault christine estabrook dr. plummeras dr. plummer clark gregg dr. waltersas dr. walters morgan hunter arkosh kovashas arkosh kovash ken daly translatoras translator director bryan singer writer christopher mcquarrie all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 american history x watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.5 the departed watch options 8.6 the silence of the lambs watch options 8.7 goodfellas watch options 8.7 one flew over the cuckoo's nest watch options 8.5 memento watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options 8.3 reservoir dogs watch options 8.9 pulp fiction watch options 8.6 the green mile watch options storyline edit following a truck hijack in new york, five criminals are arrested and brought together for questioning. as none of them are guilty, they plan a revenge operation against the police. the operation goes well, but then the influence of a legendary mastermind criminal called keyser s?ze is felt. it becomes clear that each one of them has wronged s?ze at some point and must pay back now. the payback job leaves 27 men dead in a boat explosion, but the real question arises now: who actually is keyser s?ze? ?soumitra surprise endingcriminal mastermindcriminalsuspectunreliable narrator270 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was to convince the world he didn't exist genres crime drama mystery thriller certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia when redfoot flicks his cigarette into the face of mcmanus, it was originally intended to hit his chest, so mcmanus' reaction is actually stephen baldwin's real unscripted reaction, which bryan singer decided to keep in the movie. goofs during verbal's interrogation, his coffee mug is empty when he takes the first sip. in the next scene, it is fine. quotes [last lines] verbal: after that my guess is that you will never hear from him again. the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he did not exist. and like that... he is gone. crazy credits the editor, john ottman, edited the movie on film. he felt that all the editing done electronically at the time was horrible because all the good editors were still working on film (which is much more difficult). because of this he thought about putting "edited on a piece of s*** steenbeck" at the end of the credits, but instead settled for the more subtle line "edited on film." tim robbins was directing 'dead man walking' at the time and heard about john's idea, which sparked that film's credit ending of "this film was edited on old machines." alternate versions the australian television version left the line-up scene unedited for language. however, all other scenes with strong language, such as mcmanus's call for payback at the discovery of finster's body, were shortened or removed. connections edited into keyser s?ze: lie or legend? (2002) soundtracks le sons et les parfums tournent dans l'air du soir performed by jon kull music by claude debussy user reviews1.4k review top review 10/10 not enough good things to say such films like this should be enshrined in museums, simply due to the fact it destroyed the entire genre of mystery films. while this film was unique and captivating, no other mystery will ever accomplish this sort of cult status, single handedly shaping a genre. while most mysteries try to shock you too often with twists and even more twists, it turns out to be overkill. this film encompassed such ideas with flair and originality, which is probably the reason brian singer is sticking to sci-fi action films. only memento and the game are the only recent mystery movies worthy enough to stand beside this film. sadly, singer has somewhat sold out by doing the x-men movies, but i guess trying to make films like this would be too taxing. this film will always bring a smile to my face when i watch it with someone who hasn't seen this movie. a good viewing every time i watch it, the new special edition dvd is awesome. helpful?322 125 agent10 jun 1, 2002 faq11 is "the usual suspects" based on a book? where does the title come from? who are the "usual suspects?" details edit release date august 16, 1995 (united states) countries of origin united states germany official site official facebook languages english hungarian spanish french also known as suspects de convenance filming locations san pedro, los angeles, california, usa production companies polygram filmed entertainment spelling films international blue parrot see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $6,000,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $23,341,568 opening weekend us & canada $645,363 aug 20, 1995 gross worldwide $23,341,568 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 46 minutes sound mix dolby sr aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news giancarlo esposito doesn't see the evil in his better call saul and breaking bad character mar 29slash film denzel washington: how long is each of his oscar-nominated performances? mar 14gold derby contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of the usual suspects (1995) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows to watch in march see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
