https://www.imdb.com/news/tv/?ref_=nv_nw_tv::tv news - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) tv news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 by brian welk the wrap ?get out? and ?judas and the black messiah? actor daniel kaluuya has made his screenwriting debut on a futuristic, dystopian film for netflix called ?the kitchen.? the oscar winner co-wrote the film along with joe murtagh, and he?s also set to produce for his 59% productions banner. also producing is michael fassbender?s company dmc film. ?the kitchen? is set in london, 2044, a future where the gap between rich and poor has been stretched to its limits. all forms of social housing have been eradicated and london?s working classes have been forced to live in temporary accommodation on the outskirts of the city, the kitchen is the first and the largest of its kind, it?s london?s last village harboring residents that refuse to move on and move out of the place they call home. it?s here we meet izi, a resident of the kitchen who is see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 by jolie lash the wrap hbo?s ?house of the dragon? has a premiere date ? and several new images. the ?game of thrones? prequel series debuts sunday, august 21 on hbo and will stream on hbo max. the series is based on george r.r. martin?s ?fire & blood,? and set 200 years before the events of ?game of thrones.? it tells the story of house targaryen. hbo released new character descriptions on wednesday, as well: paddy considine as king viserys targaryen, chosen by the lords of westeros to succeed the old king, jaehaerys targaryen, at the great council at harrenhal. a warm, kind, and decent man, viserys only wishes to carry forward his grandfather?s legacy. but good men do not necessarily make for great kings. matt smith as prince daemon targaryen, younger brother to king viserys and heir to the throne. a peerless warrior and a dragonrider, daemon possesses the true blood of the dragon. but see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 by jennifer maas variety - tv news elliot page?s ?the umbrella academy? character will come out as transgender in season 3 of the netflix series, the actor said tuesday. previously the cisgender woman vanya hargreeves in seasons 1 and 2, page?s character ? whose superpower involves unleashing force through the use of sound ? will transition in the upcoming third season, which debuts on june 22. page?s character will now be known as viktor hargreeves and use he/him/his pronouns. page announced the news himself, tweeting a first-look photo of viktor along with the caption: ?meet viktor hargreeves.? netflix shared the tweet, adding: ?welcome to the family, viktor ? we see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this ?it? prequel series in the works at hbo max 29 march 2022 by joe otterson variety - tv news a prequel to ?it? is in development at hbo max, variety has learned from sources. the series, currently called ?welcome to derry,? will begin in the 1960s in the time leading up to the events of ?it: part one,? the 2017 film based on the stephen king horror novel. the story is also said to include the origin story of pennywise the clown. andy muschietti, who directed ?it: part one? and 2019?s ?it: part two,? is attached to executive produce the series along with barbara muschietti and jason fuchs. according to sources, muschiettis and fuchs developed the story for the show with fuchs writing the script. see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 by jennifer maas variety - tv news viewership for sunday?s oscars on abc grew by 511,000 viewers during the 15-minute time span that featured will smith slapping chris rock, according to live + same day nielsen data. while the oscars? audience dipped from there, it spiked again during smith?s best actor win and acceptance speech shortly after 11 p.m. et, this time by 614,000 viewers. the most-watched portion of the entire show was the 15 minutes between 9:15 p.m. and 9:29 p.m., which saw ?coda? star troy kotsur win best supporting actor. at approximately 10:27 p.m. et during the 94th academy awards telecast, smith went on see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this jada pinkett smith calls for ?healing? after will smith slaps chris rock at the oscars 29 march 2022 by zack sharf variety - film news jada pinkett smith responded somewhat cryptically to her husband will smith slapping chris rock at the oscars. pinkett smith posted a message to her instagram page that reads: ?this is the season for healing. and i?m here for it.? the actor was the subject of the joke that led will smith to take the oscar stage and slap rock. the comedian joked about jada pinkett smith starring in ?g.i. jane 2? because of her shaved bald head. rock was referencing the 1997 movie ?g.i. jane,? in which demi moore appears with a shaved head. several days before the oscars, pinkett smith posted a message on tiktok in which she embraced her bald head. the actor has alopecia, which causes hair loss, and shaved her head last year. in the tiktok message, which is set to india arie?s song ?i am not my hair,? pinkett smith discussed the pressure she see full article at variety - film news ? permalink report this will smith apologizes to chris rock: ?i was out of line and i was wrong? 28 march 2022 by brian welk the wrap will smith has formally apologized to chris rock in a statement posted to his instagram, saying that he was ?out of line and i was wrong? for slapping him at the oscars sunday night. the ?king richard? star also called his behavior ?unacceptable and inexcusable? and again apologized to the academy and producers of the show. ?violence in all of its forms is poisonous and destructive. my behavior at last night?s academy awards was unacceptable and inexcusable. jokes at my expense are a part of the job, but a joke about jada?s medical condition was too much for me to bear and i reacted emotionally. i would like to publicly apologize to you, chris. i was out of line and i was wrong. i am embarrassed and my actions were not indicative of the man i want to be. there is no place for violence in a world of love and kindness. see full article at the wrap ? permalink report this oscars draw 16.6 million viewers, soaring 58% from last year?s historic low 29 march 2022 by jennifer maas variety - tv news update: the 2022 oscars drew 16.6 million viewers on sunday, up 58% from last year?s record-low audience of 10.5 million, according to live + same day nielsen data, which includes out-of-home viewing. the 94th academy awards averaged a 3.8 rating in the key adults 18-49 demographic, up 73% from the 2021 telecast. while the year-over-year growth is impressive, it?s still the second-worst viewership and ratings performance in the history of the oscars. the show, the first oscars to have hosts since 2018, was the highest-rated entertainment special in primetime on any network in two years in the key demo, with the previous being abc?s oscars broadcast on feb. see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this ?evil? season 3 premiere date set ? watch the chilling teaser (video) 30 march 2022 tv insider oh my ? evil! we can now start counting down the days to when we?ll find out what?s next after those season-ending cliffhangers. paramount+ has revealed that the drama will return on sunday, june 12. new episodes will roll out weekly on sundays. the streaming service also released a bloody, creepy, mystifying, and, depending on your definition, sexy teaser. watch it below. ? according to the logline, the new episodes pick up moments after where the series left off in october 2021, with the newly ordained david (mike colter) listening to kristen?s (katja herbers) murder confession before the two kissed. ?in season 3, the two not only have to navigate this fraught new reality, but contend with david?s involvement with ?the entity,? an espionage unit within the catholic church,? paramount+ previews. ?meanwhile, ben [aasif mandvi] finds his brain breaking from their unsolved cases and turns to his sister for help.? when see full article at tv insider ? permalink report this cbs season finale dates: ?ncis,? ?ghosts,? ?bull?s last episode & more 30 march 2022 tv insider it?s almost time to say goodbye to our favorite shows, at least for now, with season finales approaching. cbs has announced the dates for the last episodes of the 2021-2022 season for its original primetime comedies, dramas, and unscripted series. that includes the series finale of bull, ending after six seasons, as series star michael weatherly announced in january. the good news is we already know that ghosts, bob abishola, the neighborhood, young sheldon, csi: vegas, survivor, the amazing race, tough as nails, and secret celebrity renovation are returning for the 2022-2023 season. check out cbs? season finale airdates for 2021-2022 below. friday, april 8 8:00 p.m.: undercover boss (11th season finale) thursday, april 21 9:00 p.m.: ghosts (first season finale) wednesday, may 4 10:00 p.m.: good sam (first season finale) friday, may 6 9:00 p.m.: magnum p.i. (fourth season finale) 10:00 p.m. see full article at tv insider ? permalink report this ?the rookie,? ?good doctor? renewed at abc 30 march 2022 by joe otterson variety - tv news both ?the rookie? and ?the good doctor? have been renewed at abc. for ?the rookie,? that means the show will go to a fifth season, while ?the good doctor? will be back for a sixth. ?the rookie? currently airs sundays on abc with ?the good doctor? airing on mondays. the renewals come as abc is also prepping a potential spinoff of ?the rookie? starring niecy nash. the spinoff will be introduced in a two-episode backdoor pilot during ?the rookie?s? fourth season. ?the rookie? stars nathan fillion as john nolan, mekia cox as nyla harper, alyssa diaz as angela lopez, see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this apple tv plus? ?city on fire,? from josh schwartz and stephanie savage, adds nine to cast 30 march 2022 by selome hailu variety - tv news ?city on fire,? apple tv plus? upcoming drama series from creators josh schwartz and stephanie savage, has added nine new cast members. jemima kirke, nico tortorella, ashley zukerman, xavier clyde, max milner, alexandra doke, omid abtahi, kathleen munroe and john cameron mitchell will all be series regulars alongside previously announced stars chase sui wonders and wyatt oleff. based on garth risk hallberg?s 2015 novel of the same name, ?city on fire? is set in 2003 new york, when an nyu student named samantha (wonders) is shot in central park with no witnesses and very little physical evidence. as the crime is investigated, see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this ?the thing about pam,? ?court cam? & more crime series we?re watching 30 march 2022 tv insider looking to fill you evenings with crime shows? from nbc?s fictionalized take on pam hupp with the thing about pam to more court cam, we have you covered: snapped a new episode in the series that covers cases of women accused of murder: an oregon woman manages to call 911 after being brutally stabbed by an intruder. in time, investigators tie her death to her ex?s new bride, who has a few things to hide. among them: is it possible the ex also had a hand in the horror? sunday, april 3, 6/5c, oxygen a&e court cam the dan abrams?hosted candid camera for crime fans kicks off season 5 with some amazing security footage of an adult entertainer who shot up a trump hotel in miami. after that, cc?s 100th episode reveals what happens when a suspected murderer shows up in court and is suddenly attacked?by another suspected murderer! see full article at tv insider ? permalink report this oscars host wanda sykes reacts to will smith & chris rock slap (video) 30 march 2022 tv insider the 2022 oscars slap will go down in tv history, but it?s still an open wound for the ceremony?s co-hosts, as wanda sykes shared her reaction to the event during an appearance on the ellen degeneres show. the comedian sat down with host ellen degeneres and expressed her shock over the event, which has become the most-talked-about moment of the annual awards show. recalling the evening, sykes shared that she?d been backstage at the moment when will smith walked up to the mic to slap presenter chris rock after he made a joke about smith?s wife, jada. once sykes returned from backstage, she had to be clued into the action that had just gone down onstage. initially, sykes says, ?i just felt so awful for my friend chris. it was sickening. i physically felt ill and i?m still a little traumatized by it.? (credit: abc) as see full article at tv insider ? permalink report this paul herman, ?the sopranos? and ?goodfellas? actor, dies at 76 30 march 2022 by wilson chapman variety - tv news paul herman, the character actor best known for his role as club owner peter ?beansie? gaeta in ?the sopranos,? died tuesday. his ?sopranos? co-star michael imperioli confirmed the news in an instagram. he was 76. a cause of death has not been announced. ?paulie was just a great dude,? imperioli wrote in his instagram post. ?a first class storyteller and raconteur and one hell of an actor. goodfellas, once upon a time in america , the irishman and of course the sopranos are some highlights. paulie lived around the corner from me the last few years and i am glad we got see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this ?fallout? tv series at amazon casts ?yellowjackets? star ella purnell in lead role 30 march 2022 by joe otterson variety - tv news ella purnell has been cast in a lead role of the upcoming ?fallout? tv series at amazon, variety has learned. like the video games on which it is based, the ?fallout? series is set in a world where the future envisioned by americans in the late 1940s explodes upon itself through a nuclear war in 2077. purnell joins previously announced cast member walton goggins in the series. as with goggins, amazon had no comment on the character purnell would be playing. according to sources, however, her character is described as upbeat and uncannily direct with an all-american can-do spirit. but an see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this cbs sets season finale dates for ncis, ghosts and 17 others, one series finale 30 march 2022 by matt webb mitovich tvline.com cbs apparently has its ?eye? on the end of the tv season, and thus has announced season finale dates for 19 of its shows, plus at least one series finale. to date, cbs has renewed for the 2022-23 season only the following shows: bob hearts abishola, the neighborhood, young sheldon, ghosts and csi: vegas. more from tvlineghosts' asher grodman tees up trevor's pants-less backstory: 'of all the things i imagined it could be...'ratings: ncis: hawai'i audience rises with crossover; song contest plungesneighborhood shake-up: meg deloatch out as showrunner after one season bull, meanwhile, is the only announced series finale. see full article at tvline.com ? permalink report this what to expect from ?bridgerton? season 3 after that bombshell finale 30 march 2022 by samantha bergeson indiewire television well, another bridgerton sibling has found their happily ever after. but where does that leave the rest of the regency-era family? following the jaw-dropping season 2 ?bridgerton? finale, we can?t help but wonder which sibling will feel the sting (see what we did there?) of love come season 3. [editor?s note: a spoiler alert, of sorts. the below recaps the book ?an offer from a gentleman,? which will reportedly be the inspiration for season 3.] 1. where did season 2 leave off? the eight-episode second season concluded with anthony bridgerton (jonathan bailey) reveling in bliss with kate (simone ashley). yet things proved to be a little more dramatic for his sister, eloise (claudia jessie), who finally figured out that her best friend penelope featherington (nicola coughlan) is behind the salacious lady whistledown gossip rag. eloise?s secret friendship with printer assistant theo (calam lynch) was also shattered, and while we?ll have to wait until the fifth season ? per the order of julia quinn?s novels on which the shonda rhimes-produced series is based ? to see eloise find love, see full article at indiewire television ? permalink report this ?the sopranos? & ?goodfellas? star paul herman dies at 76 30 march 2022 tv insider the sopranos and goodfellas star paul herman has died at the age of 76. news of the actor?s passing was announced by his former sopranos costar and friend, michael imperioli who took to instagram to share the announcement. ?our friend and colleague paul herman has passed away,? imperioli wrote. ?paulie was just a great dude. a first class storyteller and raconteur and one hell of an actor.? (credit: christopher polk/getty images) along with the sopranos and goodfellas, herman?s other credits include once upon a time in america, casino, heat, analyze that, we own the night, entourage, crazy heart, silver linings playbook, and the irishman. ?paulie lived around the corner from me the last few years and i am glad we got to spend some time together before he left us,? imperioli continued in his statement. ?i?ll miss him. lots of love to his family, friends and our community of actors and filmmakers. see full article at tv insider ? permalink report this marvin j. chomsky, emmy-winning ?star trek? director, dies at 92 30 march 2022 by wilson chapman variety - tv news marvin j. chomsky, the emmy-winning director and producer who helmed episodes of beloved tv shows like ?roots? and ?star trek,? died monday, his son peter chomsky confirmed to variety. he was 92. a prolific director of the small-screen with a career spanning four decades, chomsky won four emmys over the course of his career, all for his work on various miniseries or television films: ?holocaust? in 1978, ?attica? in 1980,? ?inside the third reich? in 1982 and ?peter the great? in 1986. he was additionally nominated for four other emmys, and won two director?s guild of america awards out of four nominations. born in 1929 in new york city, see full article at variety - tv news ? permalink report this an error has occured. please try again. load more imdb.com, inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, tweets, or blog posts. this content is published for the entertainment of our users only. the news articles, tweets, and blog posts do not represent imdb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy. top news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 variety - film news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news see all top news ? movie news daniel kaluuya to make screenwriting debut on dystopian drama ?the kitchen? at netflix 30 march 2022 the wrap ?game of thrones? prequel ?house of the dragon? gets august premiere date on hbo 30 march 2022 the wrap apple re-releasing ?coda? in theaters with open captions following oscars win 30 march 2022 variety - film news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 variety - film news see all movie news ? celebrity news sharon stone joins dc?s ?blue beetle? as villain victoria kord 29 march 2022 variety - film news elliot page?s ?umbrella academy? character to come out as transgender in season 3 as viktor hargreeves 29 march 2022 variety - tv news will smith?s post-slap oscars acceptance speech spiked audience by 600,000 viewers 29 march 2022 variety - tv news j.k. rowling attends ?fantastic beasts 3? premiere after sitting out ?harry potter? reunion 29 march 2022 variety - film news jada pinkett smith calls for ?healing? after will smith slaps chris rock at the oscars 29 march 2022 variety - film news see all celebrity news ? indie news ?donbass? review: sergei loznitsa?s bleak and brutal ukraine-set war comedy is eerily timed 30 march 2022 the playlist oscar co-hosts wanda sykes & amy schumer denounce the will smith slap: ?it was sickening? 30 march 2022 the playlist ?nitram? review: justin kurzel?s sober and sickening portrait of australia?s deadliest mass shooter 30 march 2022 indiewire what to expect from ?bridgerton? season 3 after that bombshell finale 30 march 2022 indiewire netflix reboots ?spy kids? with robert rodriguez returning to helm the franchise 30 march 2022 indiewire see all indie news ? clear your history recently viewed get the imdb app get the imdb app view full site help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
