https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2582802/?pf_rd_m=A2FGELUUNOQJNL&pf_rd_p=1a264172-ae11-42e4-8ef7-7fed1973bb8f&pf_rd_r=8YKW8TKTB1M0CH3KD35R&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_t=15506&pf_rd_i=top&ref_=chttp_tt_43::whiplash (2014) - imdb menu movies release calendardvd & blu-ray releasestop 250 moviesmost popular moviesbrowse movies by genretop box officeshowtimes & ticketsin theaterscoming soonmovie newsindia movie spotlight tv shows what's on tv & streamingtop 250 tv showsmost popular tv showsbrowse tv shows by genretv newsindia tv spotlight watch what to watchlatest trailersimdb originalsimdb picksimdb podcasts awards & events oscarsbest picture winnersbest picture winnersemmyswomen's history monthstarmeter awardssan diego comic-connew york comic-consundance film festivaltoronto int'l film festivalawards centralfestival centralall events celebs born todaymost popular celebsmost popular celebscelebrity news community help centercontributor zonepolls for industry professionals all all titles tv episodes celebs companies keywords advanced search watchlist sign in en fully supported english (united states) partially supported fran?ais (canada) fran?ais (france) deutsch (deutschland) ????? (????) italiano (italia) portugu?s (brasil) espa?ol (espa?a) espa?ol (m?xico) whiplash 20142014 14a14a 1h 46m imdb rating 8.5/10 800k your rating rate popularity 189 12 cast & crew user reviews trivia imdbpro all topics play trailer2:09 10 videos 99+ photos dramamusic a promising young drummer enrolls at a cut-throat music conservatory where his dreams of greatness are mentored by an instructor who will stop at nothing to realize a student's potential.a promising young drummer enrolls at a cut-throat music conservatory where his dreams of greatness are mentored by an instructor who will stop at nothing to realize a student's potential.a promising young drummer enrolls at a cut-throat music conservatory where his dreams of greatness are mentored by an instructor who will stop at nothing to realize a student's potential. imdb rating 8.5/10 800k your rating rate popularity 189 12 director damien chazelle writer damien chazelle stars miles teller j.k. simmons melissa benoist top credits director damien chazelle writer damien chazelle stars miles teller j.k. simmons melissa benoist see production, box office & company info 1.4kuser reviews 587critic reviews 88metascore see more at imdbpro top rated movie #43 won 3 oscars 98 wins & 145 nominations total videos10 trailer 2:09 trailer #2 clip 3:46 jason blum: a brief history of blumhouse clip 1:58 a guide to the films of damien chazelle clip 10:10 the first ten minutes clip 1:00 clip clip 0:52 clip clip 1:37 clip clip 1:42 "so you do know the difference" video 1:30 sundance film festival watchlist photos225 top cast edit miles teller andrewas andrew j.k. simmons fletcheras fletcher melissa benoist nicoleas nicole paul reiser jim neimannas jim neimann austin stowell ryanas ryan nate lang carl tanneras carl tanner chris mulkey uncle frankas uncle frank damon gupton mr. krameras mr. kramer suanne spoke aunt emmaas aunt emma max kasch dorm neighboras dorm neighbor charlie ian dustinas dustin jayson blair travisas travis kofi siriboe bassist (nassau)as bassist (nassau) kavita patil assistant - sophieas assistant - sophie c.j. vana metzas metz tarik lowe pianist (studio band)as pianist (studio band) tyler kimball saxophonist #2 (studio band)as saxophonist #2 (studio band) rogelio douglas jr. trumpeter #1 (studio band)as trumpeter #1 (studio band) director damien chazelle writer damien chazelle all cast & crew see more cast details at imdbpro more like this 8.5 the departed watch options 8.5 the intouchables watch options 8.5 the prestige watch options 8.5 django unchained watch options 8.6 l?on: the professional watch options 8.6 seven watch options 8.5 gladiator watch options 8.6 the pianist watch options 8.5 parasite 8.5 american history x watch options 8.8 fight club watch options 8.8 forrest gump watch options storyline edit nineteen year old andrew niemann wants to be the greatest jazz drummer in the world, in a league with buddy rich. this goal is despite not coming from a pedigree of greatest, musical or otherwise, with jim, his high school teacher father, being a failed writer. andrew is starting his first year at shaffer conservatory of music, the best music school in the united states. at shaffer, being the best means being accepted to study under terence fletcher and being asked to play in his studio band, which represents the school at jazz competitions. based on their less than positive first meeting, andrew is surprised that fletcher asks him to join the band, albeit in the alternate drummer position which he is more than happy to do initially. andrew quickly learns that fletcher operates on fear and intimidation, never settling for what he considers less than the best each and every time. being the best in fletcher's mind does not only entail playing well, but knowing that you're playing well and if not what you're doing wrong. his modus operandi creates an atmosphere of fear and of every man or woman for him/herself within the band. regardless, andrew works hard to be the best. he has to figure out his life priorities and what he is willing to sacrifice to be the best. the other question becomes how much emotional abuse he will endure by fletcher to reach that greatness, which he may believe he can only achieve with the avenues opened up by fletcher. ?huggo drummermusic schoolteacher student relationshipnew york cityconservatory55 more plot summary plot synopsis taglines the road to greatness can take you to the edge genres drama music certificate 14a parents guide did you know edit trivia the film was shot in 19 days. goofs when fletcher throws the chair at neiman, the guitarist is behind neiman in the first shot then missing in the second, probably removed to avoid being hit by the chair. quotes terence fletcher: there are no two words in the english language more harmful than "good job". connections featured in the tonight show starring jimmy fallon: tyler perry/miles teller/lucinda williams (2014) soundtracks overture written by justin hurwitz courtesy of 5am music, ltd. user reviews1.4k review top review 9/10 a pair of outstanding performances by miles teller and j.k. simmons embody damien chazelle's piece of perfection... when it comes to cinema, there are often little gems in a sea of bigger spectacles, that can break through in the most proficient way. last year, i pleaded to the entire film universe that discover and understand "inside llewyn davis" from the coen brothers after seeing it for the first time at nyff. this year, i've seem to already come to terms that the next film that will utilize all my energy and resources this year will be damien chazelle's highly intense psychological drama "whiplash." an impeccable and tightly wound experience that brings your anxiety to a feverish level. as small, and utterly different as i'm about to compare, i haven't felt this uneasy with a film's tension since paul greengrass' "captain phillips," coincidentally also was a nyff title. two other similar traits that embody the two are the intense and completely submersible performances that inhabit them. stars miles teller and j.k. simmons are absolutely astonishing, featuring two of the year's very best turns. chazelle's film tells the story of andrew (teller), a first year music student that seeks out and joins the prestigious school band, headed by an intense and frightening teacher mr. fletcher (simmons). walking out of the screening i fully knew (though i fully hope to be proved wrong this year) that miles teller would be my "oscar isaac" this year. a performance that should shoot to the top of any awards consideration for a lead actor, but unfortunately will be passed over show after show. teller is submerged in a way that we haven't seen the young actor achieve at this stage in his career. after plowing onto the scene opposite nicole kidman in "rabbit hole," and then helming "the spectacular now" with complete ease and intensity, i was not expecting him to be the machine of fury and magnitude that is on display in "whiplash." there are moments where he channels the emotional aura of performances like tom hulce/f. murray abraham in "amadeus," as crazy as that sounds. i am so excited to see where teller goes from here. it makes the future of film a lot more bright, knowing that someone like him will be rising up in the ranks. everything you've heard about j.k. simmons is true and then some. a fully fleshed out supporting role, chazelle doesn't write fletcher as a caricature. he's a deeply acute individual, full of passion and acrimony. chazelle doesn't keep simmons at a "10," he and simmons allow him to find a range of empathy, hatred, and cryptic allowances that will keep you at the edge of your seat. as i watched simmons flesh out a performance that can only be described as magnificent, i kept coming back in my mind to christoph waltz in the oscar-winning "inglourious basterds," a role that found much heat on the awards circuit. the world/all film lovers will not be able ignore the stunning presence of simmons. a supporting actor nominations (maybe even a win) seems all but assured (and deserved). looking back at the veteran actor's career that included memorable roles in "juno," "burn after reading," and "up in the air," a role like this could not have come at a better time. already impressive in his brief work in jason reitman's "men, women & children," writers, directors, casting agents, and producers will be pounding on the actor's door. you can't credit "whiplash" without citing the words and control by writer/director damien chazelle. an amazing and outstanding sophomore effort (unfortunately have not seen his debut "guy and madeline on a park bench") that channels a young bennett miller. vigorous, self-assured, and innovative, chazelle is a brilliant auteur filmmaker that knows exactly what type of films he wants to make. he takes inspiration from his own life, his love of film and music, and other places i'm sure we don't know about, and molds them into a gritty, layered experience, conditioned with rich characters, all realized through the writer's story. it's one of the best scripts of the year. "whiplash" features some of the best minutes of film seen in 2014. an ending that will bring tears to your eyes, dual performances that will have you applaud, and an experience that you surely will not forget. drumming has never felt like such a personality. it acts as a visible tool for the viewer to understand and try. if you love music, appreciate education, and dare to be better than your current state, you will find something very real to latch onto. hold on, and hold on tight. "whiplash" is being distributed by sony pictures classics and will be released october 10 in limited release (and then expanding after). a must-see for all movie lovers! helpful?172 98 claytondavis sep 27, 2014 faq2 what's the meaning of "milk the cunt"? what happened to tanner's folder? details edit release date october 15, 2014 (philippines) country of origin united states official sites official site official site (france) language english also known as whiplash: m?sica y obsesi?n filming locations santa clarita, california, usa production companies bold films blumhouse productions right of way films see more company credits at imdbpro box office edit budget $3,300,000 (estimated) gross us & canada $13,092,000 opening weekend us & canada $135,388 oct 12, 2014 gross worldwide $49,396,747 see detailed box office info on imdbpro technical specs edit runtime 1 hour 46 minutes color color sound mix dolby digital sdds datasat dolby atmos aspect ratio 2.39 : 1 related news the novice review ? trippy rowing drama with echoes of whiplash mar 29the guardian - film news night sky: j.k. simmons goes underground to a new world? again mar 28den of geek contribute to this page suggest an edit or add missing content top gap what is the streaming release date of whiplash (2014) in canada? answer see more gaps learn more about contributing edit page more to explore list the best movies and shows coming this spring see the full list 4:25 everything we know about future dc movies & series watch the video around the web powered by taboola recently viewed you have no recently viewed pages get the imdb app get the imdb app help site index imdbpro box office mojo imdb developer press room advertising jobs conditions of use privacy policy interest-based ads ? 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.
