https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page::wikipedia, the free encyclopedia main page from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search welcome to wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,476,265 articles in english the arts biography geography history mathematics science society technology all portals from today's featured article john neal, editor the yankee was one of america's first cultural publications and a precursor to the independent american press that formed decades later. founded and edited by john neal (pictured), it was published in portland, maine, between 1828 and 1829. the magazine helped establish the american gymnastics movement, covered national politics, and critiqued american literature, art, theater, and social issues. many new, predominantly female, writers and editors started their careers with publication and coverage in the yankee, including many who are familiar to modern readers. essays by neal on american art and theater anticipated major changes and movements realized in the following decades. his articles on women's rights and early feminist ideas affirmed intellectual equality between men and women and demanded political and economic rights for women, saying "if woman would act with woman, there would be a stop to our tyranny". (full article...) recently featured: it's elementary: talking about gay issues in school chagas disease here is mariah carey archive by email more featured articles did you know ... huber and dora stock, drawn by friedrich schiller ... that ludwig ferdinand huber wrote the text for a book with humorous illustrations (example pictured) by poet friedrich schiller? ... that an animal rendering and recycling plant dumped illegal amounts of ammonia, phosphorus, and fecal bacteria into the transquaking river? ... that malika louback believes her three engineering degrees make her a better fashion model? ... that racer's hurricane in 1837 was named after a royal navy vessel that was dismasted by the high winds? ... that jason robertson is only the second filipino american to play in the national hockey league? ... that the 1886 song of thanks "ein danklied sei dem herrn" was performed at a thanksgiving service for pope benedict xvi on the day of his abdication? ... that fori nehru founded an employment campaign in 1947 to sell handicrafts made by refugee women following the partition of india? ... that in the 1960s tennessee had a radio station named after the "wonderful gay way"? archive start a new article nominate an article in the news denis villeneuve coda wins best picture and dune (director denis villeneuve pictured) wins in six categories at the academy awards. the labour party, led by robert abela, wins the most seats in the maltese general election. al-shabaab kill at least 48 people in a series of attacks in mogadishu and beledweyne, somalia. mathematician dennis sullivan is awarded the abel prize for his work in topology. ongoing: covid-19 pandemic russian invasion of ukraine recent deaths: tom parker eugene melnyk sara suleri goodyear johnny fripp russell kerr dirck halstead nominate an article on this day march 30: land day in palestinian communities (1976) usmar ismail 1822 ? the united states merged east florida and west florida to create the florida territory. 1861 ? british chemist william crookes published his discovery of thallium using flame spectroscopy. 1912 ? sultan abd al-hafid signed the treaty of fes, making morocco a french protectorate. 1950 ? usmar ismail (pictured) began shooting darah dan doa, widely recognised as the first indonesian film. 1972 ? vietnam war: north vietnamese forces began the easter offensive in an attempt to gain as much territory and destroy as many south vietnamese units as possible. juan manuel de rosas (b. 1793) nicolae r?descu (b. 1874) fred korematsu (d. 2005) more anniversaries: march 29 march 30 march 31 archive by email list of days of the year today's featured picture te whanganui-a-hei marine reserve is in the southern part of mercury bay on the coromandel peninsula in new zealand. seen here is cathedral cove, with its bluffs and natural rock archway, a popular tourist destination. photograph credit: krzysztof golik recently featured: hayley mcfarland wheat fields song thrush archive more featured pictures other areas of wikipedia community portal ? the central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. village pump ? forum for discussions about wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. site news ? sources of news about wikipedia and the broader wikimedia movement. teahouse ? ask basic questions about using or editing wikipedia. help desk ? ask questions about using or editing wikipedia. reference desk ? ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. wikipedia's sister projects wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the wikimedia foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects: commons free media repository mediawiki wiki software development meta-wiki wikimedia project coordination wikibooks free textbooks and manuals wikidata free knowledge base wikinews free-content news wikiquote collection of quotations wikisource free-content library wikispecies directory of species wikiversity free learning tools wikivoyage free travel guide wiktionary dictionary and thesaurus wikipedia languages this wikipedia is written in english. many other wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles ??????? deutsch espa?ol fran?ais italiano nederlands ??? polski portugu?s ??????? svenska ?????????? ti?ng vi?t ?? 250,000+ articles bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu b?n-l?m-g? ????????? catal? ?e?tina dansk esperanto euskara ?????? ????? ??? magyar norsk bokm?l rom?n? srpski srpskohrvatski suomi t?rk?e 50,000+ articles asturianu ????? bosanski eesti ???????? simple english galego hrvatski latvie?u lietuvi? ?????? ?????????? norsk nynorsk shqip sloven?ina sloven??ina ??? retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=main_page&oldid=1069328725" navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces main page talk english views read view source view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons mediawiki meta-wiki multilingual wikisource wikispecies wikibooks wikidata wikimania wikinews wikiquote wikisource wikiversity wikivoyage wiktionary languages ??????? ????? ????????? bosanski catal? ?e?tina dansk deutsch eesti ???????? espa?ol esperanto euskara ????? fran?ais galego ??? hrvatski bahasa indonesia italiano ????? ??????? latvie?u lietuvi? magyar ?????????? bahasa melayu nederlands ??? norsk bokm?l norsk nynorsk polski portugu?s rom?n? ??????? simple english sloven?ina sloven??ina ?????? / srpski srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? suomi svenska ??? t?rk?e ?????????? ti?ng vi?t ?? this page was last edited on 1 february 2022, at 19:01 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
