https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Writing_system::writing system - wikipedia writing system from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search any conventional method of visually representing verbal communication for broader coverage of this topic, see writing. this article needs additional citations for verification. please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. unsourced material may be challenged and removed. find sources: "writing system" ? news ? newspapers ? books ? scholar ? jstor (june 2015) (learn how and when to remove this template message) writing systems abjad arabic hebrew abugida canadian syllabic ethiopic north indic south indic thaana alphabetical armenian cyrillic georgian greek hangul latin logographic and syllabic hanzi [l] kana [s] / kanji [l] v t e a writing system is a method of visually representing verbal communication, based on a script and a set of rules regulating its use. while both writing and speech are useful in conveying messages, writing differs in also being a reliable form of information storage and transfer.[1] writing systems require shared understanding between writers and readers of the meaning behind the sets of characters that make up a script. writing is usually recorded onto a durable medium, such as paper or electronic storage, although non-durable methods may also be used, such as writing on a computer display, on a blackboard, in sand, or by skywriting. reading a text can be accomplished purely in the mind as an internal process, or expressed orally. writing systems can be placed into broad categories such as alphabets, syllabaries, or logographies, although any particular system may have attributes of more than one category. in the alphabetic category, a standard set of letters represent speech sounds. in a syllabary, each symbol correlates to a syllable or mora. in a logography, each character represents a semantic unit such as a word or morpheme. abjads differ from alphabets in that vowels are not indicated, and in abugidas or alphasyllabaries each character represents a consonant?vowel pairing. alphabets typically use a set of less than 100 symbols to fully express a language, whereas syllabaries can have several hundred, and logographies can have thousands of symbols. many writing systems also include a special set of symbols known as punctuation which is used to aid interpretation and help capture nuances and variations in the message's meaning that are communicated verbally by cues in timing, tone, accent, inflection or intonation. writing systems were preceded by proto-writing, which used pictograms, ideograms and other mnemonic symbols. proto-writing lacked the ability to capture and express a full range of thoughts and ideas. the invention of writing systems, which dates back to the beginning of the bronze age in the late neolithic era of the late 4th millennium bc, enabled the accurate durable recording of human history in a manner that was not prone to the same types of error to which oral history is vulnerable. soon after, writing provided a reliable form of long distance communication. with the advent of publishing, it provided the medium for an early form of mass communication. contents 1 general properties 2 basic terminology 2.1 text, writing, reading and orthography 2.2 grapheme and phoneme 2.3 glyph, sign and character 2.4 complete and partial writing systems 2.5 writing systems, languages and conceptual systems 3 history 4 functional classification 4.1 logographic systems 4.2 syllabic systems: syllabary 4.3 segmental systems: alphabets 4.4 featural systems 4.5 ambiguous systems 5 graphic classification 6 directionality 7 on computers 8 see also 9 references 9.1 sources 10 external links general properties[edit] chinese characters (??) are morpho-syllabic. each one represents a syllable with a distinct meaning, but some characters may have multiple meanings or pronunciations writing systems are distinguished from other possible symbolic communication systems in that a writing system is always associated with at least one spoken language. in contrast, visual representations such as drawings, paintings, and non-verbal items on maps, such as contour lines, are not language-related. some symbols on information signs, such as the symbols for male and female, are also not language related, but can grow to become part of language if they are often used in conjunction with other language elements. some other symbols, such as numerals and the ampersand, are not directly linked to any specific language, but are often used in writing and thus must be considered part of writing systems. every human community possesses language, which many regard as an innate and defining condition of humanity. however, the development of writing systems, and the process by which they have supplanted traditional oral systems of communication, have been sporadic, uneven and slow. once established, writing systems generally change more slowly than their spoken counterparts. thus they often preserve features and expressions which are no longer current in the spoken language. one of the great benefits of writing systems is that they can preserve a permanent record of information expressed in a language. all writing systems require: at least one set of defined base elements or symbols, individually termed signs and collectively called a script;[2] at least one set of rules and conventions (orthography) understood and shared by a community, which assigns meaning to the base elements (graphemes), their ordering and relations to one another; at least one language (generally spoken) whose constructions are represented and can be recalled by the interpretation of these elements and rules; some physical means of distinctly representing the symbols by application to a permanent or semi-permanent medium, so they may be interpreted (usually visually, but tactile systems have also been devised). basic terminology[edit] a specimen of typefaces and styles, by william caslon, letter founder; from the 1728 cyclopaedia in the examination of individual scripts, the study of writing systems has developed along partially independent lines. thus, the terminology employed differs somewhat from field to field. text, writing, reading and orthography[edit] the generic term text[3] refers to an instance of written or spoken material with the latter having been transcribed in some way. the act of composing and recording a text may be referred to as writing,[4] and the act of viewing and interpreting the text as reading.[5] orthography refers to the method and rules of observed writing structure (literal meaning, "correct writing"), and particularly for alphabetic systems, includes the concept of spelling. grapheme and phoneme[edit] main articles: grapheme and phoneme a grapheme is a specific base unit of a writing system. they are the minimally significant elements which taken together comprise the set of "building blocks" out of which texts made up of one or more writing systems may be constructed, along with rules of correspondence and use. the concept is similar to that of the phoneme used in the study of spoken languages. for example, in the latin-based writing system of standard contemporary english, examples of graphemes include the majuscule and minuscule forms of the twenty-six letters of the alphabet (corresponding to various phonemes), marks of punctuation (mostly non-phonemic), and a few other symbols such as those for numerals (logograms for numbers). an individual grapheme may be represented in a wide variety of ways, where each variation is visually distinct in some regard, but all are interpreted as representing the "same" grapheme. these individual variations are known as allographs of a grapheme (compare with the term allophone used in linguistic study). for example, the minuscule letter a has different allographs when written as a cursive, block, or typed letter. the choice of a particular allograph may be influenced by the medium used, the writing instrument, the stylistic choice of the writer, the preceding and following graphemes in the text, the time available for writing, the intended audience, and the largely unconscious features of an individual's handwriting. glyph, sign and character[edit] the terms glyph, sign and character are sometimes used to refer to a grapheme. common usage varies from discipline to discipline; compare cuneiform sign, maya glyph, chinese character. the glyphs of most writing systems are made up of lines (or strokes) and are therefore called linear, but there are glyphs in non-linear writing systems made up of other types of marks, such as cuneiform and braille. complete and partial writing systems[edit] writing systems may be regarded as complete according to the extent to which they are able to represent all that may be expressed in the spoken language, while a partial writing system is limited in what it can convey.[6] writing systems, languages and conceptual systems[edit] writing systems can be independent from languages, one can have multiple writing systems for a language, e.g., hindustani;[7] and one can also have one writing system for multiple languages, e.g., the arabic script. chinese characters were also borrowed by other countries as their early writing systems, e.g., the early writing systems of vietnamese language until the beginning of the 20th century. to represent a conceptual system, one uses one or more languages, e.g., mathematics is a conceptual system[8] and one may use first-order logic and a natural language together in representation. history[edit] main article: history of writing comparative evolution from pictograms to abstract shapes, in mesopotamian cuneiforms, egyptian hieroglyphs and chinese characters. writing systems were preceded by proto-writing, systems of ideographic and/or early mnemonic symbols. the best-known examples are: "token system", a recording system used for accounting purposes in mesopotamia c. 9000 bc[9] jiahu symbols, carved on tortoise shells in jiahu, c. 6600 bc vin?a symbols (t?rt?ria tablets), c. 5300 bc proto-cuneiform c. 3500 bc[10] possibly the early indus script, c. 3500 bc, as its nature is disputed[11][better source needed] nsibidi script, c. before 500 ad[citation needed] the invention of the first writing systems is roughly contemporary with the beginning of the bronze age (following the late neolithic) in the late 4th millennium bc. the sumerian archaic cuneiform script closely followed by the egyptian hieroglyphs are generally considered the earliest writing systems, both emerging out of their ancestral proto-literate symbol systems from 3400 to 3200 bc with earliest coherent texts from about 2600 bc. it is generally agreed that the historically earlier sumerian writing was an independent invention; however, it is debated whether egyptian writing was developed completely independently of sumerian, or was a case of cultural diffusion.[12] a similar debate exists for the chinese script, which developed around 1200 bc.[13][14] the chinese script is probably an independent invention, because there is no evidence of contact between china and the literate civilizations of the near east,[15] and because of the distinct differences between the mesopotamian and chinese approaches to logography and phonetic representation.[16] the pre-columbian mesoamerican writing systems (including among others olmec and maya scripts) are generally believed to have had independent origins. a hieroglyphic writing system used by pre-colonial mi'kmaq, which was observed by missionaries from the 17th to 19th centuries, is thought to have developed independently. there is some debate over whether or not this was a fully formed system or just a series of mnemonic pictographs. it is thought that the first consonantal alphabetic writing appeared before 2000 bc, as a representation of language developed by semitic tribes in the sinai peninsula (see history of the alphabet). most other alphabets in the world today either descended from this one innovation, many via the phoenician alphabet, or were directly inspired by its design. the first true alphabet is the greek script which consistently represents vowels since 800 bc.[17][18] the latin alphabet, a direct descendant, is by far the most common writing system in use.[19] functional classification[edit] for lists of writing systems by type, see list of writing systems. table of scripts in the introduction to sanskrit-english dictionary by monier monier-williams this textbook for puyi shows the english alphabet. although the english letters run from left to right, the chinese explanations run from top to bottom then right to left, as traditionally written several approaches have been taken to classify writing systems, the most common and basic one is a broad division into three categories: logographic, syllabic, and alphabetic (or segmental); however, all three may be found in any given writing system in varying proportions, often making it difficult to categorise a system uniquely. the term complex system is sometimes used to describe those where the admixture makes classification problematic. modern linguists regard such approaches, including diringer's[20] pictographic script ideographic script analytic transitional script phonetic script alphabetic script as too simplistic, often considering the categories to be incomparable. hill[21] split writing into three major categories of linguistic analysis, one of which covers discourses and is not usually considered writing proper: discourse system iconic discourse system, e.g. amerindian conventional discourse system, e.g. quipu morphemic writing system, e.g. egyptian, sumerian, maya, chinese, anatolian hieroglyphs phonemic writing system partial phonemic writing system, e.g. egyptian, hebrew, arabic poly-phonemic writing system, e.g. linear b, kana, cherokee mono-phonemic writing system phonemic writing system, e.g. ancient greek, old english morpho-phonemic writing system, e.g. german, modern english sampson draws a distinction between semasiography and glottography semasiography, relating visible marks to meaning directly without reference to any specific spoken language glottography, using visible marks to represent forms of a spoken language logography, representing a spoken language by assigning distinctive visible marks to linguistic elements of andr? martinet's "first articulation" (martinet 1949), i.e. morphemes or words phonography, achieving the same goal by assigning marks to elements of the "second articulation", e.g. phonemes, syllables defrancis,[22] criticizing sampson's[23] introduction of semasiographic writing and featural alphabets stresses the phonographic quality of writing proper pictures nonwriting writing rebus syllabic systems pure syllabic, e.g. linear b, yi, kana, cherokee morpho-syllabic, e.g. sumerian, chinese, mayan consonantal morpho-consonantal, e.g. egyptian pure consonantal, e.g. phoenician alphabetic pure phonemic, e.g. greek morpho-phonemic, e.g. english faber[24] categorizes phonographic writing by two levels, linearity and coding: logographic, e.g. chinese, ancient egyptian phonographic syllabically linear syllabically coded, e.g. kana, akkadian segmentally coded, e.g. hebrew, syriac, arabic, ethiopian, amharic, devanagari segmentally linear complete (alphabet), e.g. greco-latin, cyrillic defective, e.g. ugaritic, phoenician, aramaic, old south arabian, paleo-hebrew classification by daniels[25] type each symbol represents example logosyllabary word or morpheme as well as syllable chinese characters syllabary syllable japanese kana abjad (consonantary) consonant arabic alphabet alphabet consonant or vowel latin alphabet abugida consonant accompanied by specific vowel, modifying symbols represent other vowels indian devanagari featural system distinctive feature of segment korean hangul logographic systems[edit] main article: logogram early chinese character for sun (ri), 1200 b.c modern chinese character (ri) meaning "day" or "sun" a logogram is a single written character which represents a complete grammatical word. chinese characters are type examples of logograms. as each character represents a single word (or, more precisely, a morpheme), many logograms are required to write all the words of language. the vast array of logograms and the memorization of what they mean are considered by some as major disadvantages of logographic systems over alphabetic systems. however, since the meaning is inherent to the symbol, the same logographic system can theoretically be used to represent different languages. in practice, the ability to communicate across languages works best for the closely related varieties of chinese, and only to a lesser extent for other languages, as differences in syntax reduce the crosslinguistic portability of a given logographic system. japanese uses chinese logograms extensively in its writing systems, with most of the symbols carrying the same or similar meanings. however, the grammatical differences between japanese and chinese are significant enough that a long chinese text is not readily understandable to a japanese reader without any knowledge of basic chinese grammar, though short and concise phrases such as those on signs and newspaper headlines are much easier to comprehend. similarly, a chinese reader can get a general idea of what a long japanese text means but usually cannot understand the text fully. while most languages do not use wholly logographic writing systems, many languages use some logograms. a good example of modern western logograms are the arabic numerals: everyone who uses those symbols understands what 1 means whether they call it one, eins, uno, yi, ichi, ehad, ena, or jedan. other western logograms include the ampersand &, used for and, the at sign @, used in many contexts for at, the percent sign % and the many signs representing units of currency ($, ?, ?, ?, ? and so on.) logograms are sometimes called ideograms, a word that refers to symbols which graphically represent abstract ideas, but linguists avoid this use, as chinese characters are often semantic?phonetic compounds, symbols which include an element that represents the meaning and a phonetic complement element that represents the pronunciation. some nonlinguists distinguish between lexigraphy and ideography, where symbols in lexigraphies represent words and symbols in ideographies represent words or morphemes. the most important (and, to a degree, the only surviving) modern logographic writing system is the chinese one, whose characters have been used with varying degrees of modification in varieties of chinese, japanese, korean, vietnamese, and other east asian languages. ancient egyptian hieroglyphs and the mayan writing system are also systems with certain logographic features, although they have marked phonetic features as well and are no longer in current use. vietnamese switched to the latin alphabet in the 20th century and the use of chinese characters in korean is increasingly rare. the japanese writing system includes several distinct forms of writing including logography. syllabic systems: syllabary[edit] main article: syllabary a bilingual stop sign in english and the cherokee syllabary in tahlequah, oklahoma another type of writing system with systematic syllabic linear symbols, the abugidas, is discussed below as well. as logographic writing systems use a single symbol for an entire word, a syllabary is a set of written symbols that represent (or approximate) syllables, which make up words. a symbol in a syllabary typically represents a consonant sound followed by a vowel sound, or just a vowel alone. in a "true syllabary", there is no systematic graphic similarity between phonetically related characters (though some do have graphic similarity for the vowels). that is, the characters for /ke/, /ka/ and /ko/ have no similarity to indicate their common "k" sound (voiceless velar plosive). more recent creations such as the cree syllabary embody a system of varying signs, which can best be seen when arranging the syllabogram set in an onset?coda or onset?rime table. syllabaries are best suited to languages with relatively simple syllable structure, such as japanese. the english language, on the other hand, allows complex syllable structures, with a relatively large inventory of vowels and complex consonant clusters, making it cumbersome to write english words with a syllabary. to write english using a syllabary, every possible syllable in english would have to have a separate symbol, and whereas the number of possible syllables in japanese is around 100, in english there are approximately 15,000 to 16,000. however, syllabaries with much larger inventories do exist. the yi script, for example, contains 756 different symbols (or 1,164, if symbols with a particular tone diacritic are counted as separate syllables, as in unicode). the chinese script, when used to write middle chinese and the modern varieties of chinese, also represents syllables, and includes separate glyphs for nearly all of the many thousands of syllables in middle chinese; however, because it primarily represents morphemes and includes different characters to represent homophonous morphemes with different meanings, it is normally considered a logographic script rather than a syllabary. other languages that use true syllabaries include mycenaean greek (linear b) and indigenous languages of the americas such as cherokee. several languages of the ancient near east used forms of cuneiform, which is a syllabary with some non-syllabic elements. segmental systems: alphabets[edit] main article: alphabet an alphabet is a small set of letters (basic written symbols), each of which roughly represents or represented historically a segmental phoneme of a spoken language. the word alphabet is derived from alpha and beta, the first two symbols of the greek alphabet. the first type of alphabet that was developed was the abjad. an abjad is an alphabetic writing system where there is one symbol per consonant. abjads differ from other alphabets in that they have characters only for consonantal sounds. vowels are not usually marked in abjads. all known abjads (except maybe tifinagh) belong to the semitic family of scripts, and derive from the original northern linear abjad. the reason for this is that semitic languages and the related berber languages have a morphemic structure which makes the denotation of vowels redundant in most cases. some abjads, like arabic and hebrew, have markings for vowels as well. however, they use them only in special contexts, such as for teaching. many scripts derived from abjads have been extended with vowel symbols to become full alphabets. of these, the most famous example is the derivation of the greek alphabet from the phoenician abjad. this has mostly happened when the script was adapted to a non-semitic language. the term abjad takes its name from the old order of the arabic alphabet's consonants 'alif, b?', j?m, d?l, though the word may have earlier roots in phoenician or ugaritic. "abjad" is still the word for alphabet in arabic, malay and indonesian. a bible printed with balinese script an abugida is an alphabetic writing system whose basic signs denote consonants with an inherent vowel and where consistent modifications of the basic sign indicate other following vowels than the inherent one. thus, in an abugida there may or may not be a sign for "k" with no vowel, but also one for "ka" (if "a" is the inherent vowel), and "ke" is written by modifying the "ka" sign in a way that is consistent with how one would modify "la" to get "le". in many abugidas the modification is the addition of a vowel sign, but other possibilities are imaginable (and used), such as rotation of the basic sign, addition of diacritical marks and so on. the contrast with "true syllabaries" is that the latter have one distinct symbol per possible syllable, and the signs for each syllable have no systematic graphic similarity. the graphic similarity of most abugidas comes from the fact that they are derived from abjads, and the consonants make up the symbols with the inherent vowel and the new vowel symbols are markings added on to the base symbol. in the ge'ez script, for which the linguistic term abugida was named, the vowel modifications do not always appear systematic, although they originally were more so. canadian aboriginal syllabics can be considered abugidas, although they are rarely thought of in those terms. the largest single group of abugidas is the brahmic family of scripts, however, which includes nearly all the scripts used in india and southeast asia. the name abugida is derived from the first four characters of an order of the ge'ez script used in some contexts. it was borrowed from ethiopian languages as a linguistic term by peter t. daniels. featural systems[edit] main article: featural writing system a featural script represents finer detail than an alphabet. here symbols do not represent whole phonemes, but rather the elements (features) that make up the phonemes, such as voicing or its place of articulation. theoretically, each feature could be written with a separate letter; and abjads or abugidas, or indeed syllabaries, could be featural, but the only prominent system of this sort is korean hangul. in hangul, the featural symbols are combined into alphabetic letters, and these letters are in turn joined into syllabic blocks, so that the system combines three levels of phonological representation. many scholars, e.g. john defrancis, reject this class or at least labeling hangul as such.[citation needed] the korean script is a conscious script creation by literate experts, which daniels calls a "sophisticated grammatogeny".[citation needed] these include stenographies and constructed scripts of hobbyists and fiction writers (such as tengwar), many of which feature advanced graphic designs corresponding to phonologic properties. the basic unit of writing in these systems can map to anything from phonemes to words. it has been shown that even the latin script has sub-character "features".[26] ambiguous systems[edit] most writing systems are not purely one type. the english writing system, for example, includes numerals and other logograms such as #, $, and &, and the written language often does not match well with the spoken one. as mentioned above, all logographic systems have phonetic components as well, whether along the lines of a syllabary, such as chinese ("logo-syllabic"), or an abjad, as in egyptian ("logo-consonantal"). some scripts, however, are truly ambiguous. the semi-syllabaries of ancient spain were syllabic for plosives such as p, t, k, but alphabetic for other consonants. in some versions, vowels were written redundantly after syllabic letters, conforming to an alphabetic orthography. old persian cuneiform was similar. of 23 consonants (including null), seven were fully syllabic, thirteen were purely alphabetic, and for the other three, there was one letter for /cu/ and another for both /ca/ and /ci/. however, all vowels were written overtly regardless; as in the brahmic abugidas, the /ca/ letter was used for a bare consonant. the zhuyin phonetic glossing script for chinese divides syllables in two or three, but into onset, medial, and rime rather than consonant and vowel. pahawh hmong is similar, but can be considered to divide syllables into either onset-rime or consonant-vowel (all consonant clusters and diphthongs are written with single letters); as the latter, it is equivalent to an abugida but with the roles of consonant and vowel reversed. other scripts are intermediate between the categories of alphabet, abjad and abugida, so there may be disagreement on how they should be classified. graphic classification[edit] perhaps the primary graphic distinction made in classifications is that of linearity. linear writing systems are those in which the characters are composed of lines, such as the latin alphabet and chinese characters. chinese characters are considered linear whether they are written with a ball-point pen or a calligraphic brush, or cast in bronze. similarly, egyptian hieroglyphs and maya glyphs were often painted in linear outline form, but in formal contexts they were carved in bas-relief. the earliest examples of writing are linear: the sumerian script of c. 3300 bc was linear, though its cuneiform descendants were not. non-linear systems, on the other hand, such as braille, are not composed of lines, no matter what instrument is used to write them. cuneiform was probably the earliest non-linear writing. its glyphs were formed by pressing the end of a reed stylus into moist clay, not by tracing lines in the clay with the stylus as had been done previously.[27][28] the result was a radical transformation of the appearance of the script. braille is a non-linear adaptation of the latin alphabet that completely abandoned the latin forms. the letters are composed of raised bumps on the writing substrate, which can be leather (louis braille's original material), stiff paper, plastic or metal. there are also transient non-linear adaptations of the latin alphabet, including morse code, the manual alphabets of various sign languages, and semaphore, in which flags or bars are positioned at prescribed angles. however, if "writing" is defined as a potentially permanent means of recording information, then these systems do not qualify as writing at all, since the symbols disappear as soon as they are used. (instead, these transient systems serve as signals.) directionality[edit] this article needs additional citations for verification. please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. unsourced material may be challenged and removed. find sources: "writing system" ? news ? newspapers ? books ? scholar ? jstor (july 2020) (learn how and when to remove this template message) an overview of the writing directions used in the world see also: right-to-left, horizontal and vertical writing in east asian scripts, bidirectional text, and mirror writing scripts are graphically characterized by the direction in which they are written. egyptian hieroglyphs were written either left to right or right to left, with the animal and human glyphs turned to face the beginning of the line. the early alphabet could be written in multiple directions:[29] horizontally (side to side), or vertically (up or down). prior to standardization, alphabetical writing was done both left-to-right (ltr or sinistrodextrally) and right-to-left (rtl or dextrosinistrally). it was most commonly written boustrophedonically: starting in one (horizontal) direction, then turning at the end of the line and reversing direction. the greek alphabet and its successors settled on a left-to-right pattern, from the top to the bottom of the page. other scripts, such as arabic and hebrew, came to be written right-to-left. scripts that incorporate chinese characters have traditionally been written vertically (top-to-bottom), from the right to the left of the page, but nowadays are frequently written left-to-right, top-to-bottom, due to western influence, a growing need to accommodate terms in the latin script, and technical limitations in popular electronic document formats. chinese characters sometimes, as in signage, especially when signifying something old or traditional, may also be written from right to left. the old uyghur alphabet and its descendants are unique in being written top-to-bottom, left-to-right; this direction originated from an ancestral semitic direction by rotating the page 90? counter-clockwise to conform to the appearance of vertical chinese writing. several scripts used in the philippines and indonesia, such as hanun?'o, are traditionally written with lines moving away from the writer, from bottom to top, but are read horizontally left to right; however, kulitan, another philippine script, is written top to bottom and right to left. ogham is written bottom to top and read vertically, commonly on the corner of a stone. left-to-right writing has the advantage that since most people are right-handed, the hand does not interfere with the just-written text, which might not yet have dried, since the hand is on the right side of the pen. on computers[edit] in computers and telecommunication systems, writing systems are generally not codified as such,[clarification needed] but graphemes and other grapheme-like units that are required for text processing are represented by "characters" that typically manifest in encoded form. there are many character encoding standards and related technologies, such as iso/iec 8859-1 (a character repertoire and encoding scheme oriented toward the latin script), cjk (chinese, japanese, korean) and bi-directional text. today, many such standards are re-defined in a collective standard, the iso/iec 10646 "universal character set", and a parallel, closely related expanded work, the unicode standard. both are generally encompassed by the term unicode. in unicode, each character, in every language's writing system, is (simplifying slightly) given a unique identification number, known as its code point. computer operating systems use code points to look up characters in the font file, so the characters can be displayed on the page or screen. a keyboard is the device most commonly used for writing via computer. each key is associated with a standard code which the keyboard sends to the computer when it is pressed. by using a combination of alphabetic keys with modifier keys such as ctrl, alt, shift and altgr, various character codes are generated and sent to the cpu. the operating system intercepts and converts those signals to the appropriate characters based on the keyboard layout and input method, and then delivers those converted codes and characters to the running application software, which in turn looks up the appropriate glyph in the currently used font file, and requests the operating system to draw these on the screen. see also[edit] languages portal artificial script calligraphy defective script digraphia epigraphy formal language grammatology international phonetic alphabet iso 15924 orthography pasigraphy penmanship paleography phonemic orthography phonetic transcription numeral system transliteration transcription (linguistics) writing written language x-sampa references[edit] ^ "definitions of writing systems". omniglot: the online encyclopedia of writing systems and languages. www.omniglot.com. retrieved 2013-06-29. ^ coulmas, florian. 2003. writing systems. an introduction. cambridge university press. pg. 35. ^ david crystal (2008), a dictionary of linguistics and phonetics, 6th edition, p. 481, wiley ^ hadumod bu?mann (1998), routledge dictionary of language and linguistics, p. 1294, taylor & francis ^ hadumod bu?mann (1998), routledge dictionary of language and linguistics, p. 979, taylor & francis ^ harriet joseph ottenheimer (2012), the anthropology of language: an introduction to linguistic anthropology, p. 194, cengage learning ^ "is it plausible to have two written forms of one spoken language that are so different as to be indecipherable?". worldbuilding stack exchange. ^ metaphor and analogy in the sciences, p. 126, springer science & business media (2013) ^ denise schmandt-besserat, "an archaic recording system and the origin of writing." syro-mesopotamian studies, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 1?32, 1977 ^ woods, christopher (2010), "the earliest mesopotamian writing", in woods, christopher (ed.), visible language. inventions of writing in the ancient middle east and beyond (pdf), oriental institute museum publications, 32, chicago: university of chicago, pp. 33?50, isbn 978-1-885923-76-9 ^ "machine learning could finally crack the 4,000-year-old indus script". 25 january 2017. ^ geoffrey sampson, writing systems: a linguistic introduction, stanford university press, 1990, p. 78. ^ robert bagley (2004). "anyang writing and the origin of the chinese writing system". in houston, stephen (ed.). the first writing: script invention as history and process. cambridge university press. p. 190. isbn 9780521838610. retrieved 3 april 2019. ^ william g. boltz (1999). "language and writing". in loewe, michael; shaughnessy, edward l. (eds.). the cambridge history of ancient china: from the origins of civilization to 221 bc. cambridge university press. p. 108. isbn 9780521470308. retrieved 3 april 2019. ^ david n. keightley, noel barnard. the origins of chinese civilization. page 415-416 ^ sex and eroticism in mesopotamian literature. gwendolyn leick, p. 3. ^ coulmas, florian (1996). the blackwell encyclopedia of writing systems. oxford: blackwell publishers ltd. isbn 0-631-21481-x. ^ millard 1986, p. 396 ^ haarmann 2004, p. 96 ^ david diringer (1962): writing. london. ^ archibald hill (1967): the typology of writing systems. in: william a. austin (ed.), papers in linguistics in honor of leon dostert. the hague, 92?99. ^ john defrancis (1989): visible speech. the diverse oneness of writing systems. honolulu ^ geoffrey sampson (1986): writing systems. a linguistic approach. london ^ alice faber (1992): phonemic segmentation as an epiphenomenon. evidence from the history of alphabetic writing. in: pamela downing et al. (ed.): the linguistics of literacy. amsterdam. 111?134. ^ daniels and bright 1996, p. 4 harvnb error: no target: citerefdaniels_and_bright1996 (help) ^ see primus, beatrice (2004), "a featural analysis of the modern roman alphabet" (pdf), written language and literacy, 7 (2): 235?274, doi:10.1075/wll.7.2.06pri, archived from the original (pdf) on 2017-10-10, retrieved 2015-12-05 ^ cammarosano, michele. "cuneiform writing techniques". cuneiform.neocities.org. retrieved 2018-07-18. ^ cammarosano, michele (2014). "the cuneiform stylus". mesopotamia. xlix: 53?90. ^ threatte, leslie (1980). the grammar of attic inscriptions. w. de gruyter. pp. 54?55. isbn 3-11-007344-7. sources[edit] cisse, mamadou. 2006. "ecrits et ?critures en afrique de l'ouest". sudlangues n?6, https://web.archive.org/web/20110720093748/http://www.sudlangues.sn/spip.php?article101 coulmas, florian. 1996. the blackwell encyclopedia of writing systems. oxford: blackwell. coulmas, florian. 2003. writing systems. an introduction. cambridge: cambridge university press. daniels, peter t, and william bright, eds. 1996. the world's writing systems. oxford university press. isbn 0-19-507993-0. defrancis, john. 1990. the chinese language: fact and fantasy. honolulu: university of hawaii press. isbn 0-8248-1068-6 haarmann, harald (2004). geschichte der schrift [history of writing] (in german) (2nd ed.). m?nchen: c. h. beck. isbn 3-406-47998-7. hannas, william. c. 1997. asia's orthographic dilemma. university of hawaii press. isbn 0-8248-1892-x (paperback); isbn 0-8248-1842-3 (hardcover) millard, a. r. (1986). "the infancy of the alphabet". world archaeology. 17 (3): 390?398. doi:10.1080/00438243.1986.9979978. nishiyama, yutaka. 2010. the mathematics of direction in writing. international journal of pure and applied mathematics, vol.61, no.3, 347-356. rogers, henry. 2005. writing systems: a linguistic approach. oxford: blackwell. isbn 0-631-23463-2 (hardcover); isbn 0-631-23464-0 (paperback) sampson, geoffrey. 1985. writing systems. stanford, california: stanford university press. isbn 0-8047-1756-7 (paper), isbn 0-8047-1254-9 (cloth). smalley, w. a. (ed.) 1964. orthography studies: articles on new writing systems. london: united bible society. external links[edit] this article's use of external links may not follow wikipedia's policies or guidelines. please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (june 2020) (learn how and when to remove this template message) decodeunicode unicode wiki with all 98,884 unicode 5.0 characters as gifs in three sizes the world?s writing systems, all 294 known writing systems, each with a typographic reference glyph and unicode status african writing systems omniglot: the online encyclopedia of writing systems and languages ancient scripts introduction to different writing systems alphabets of europe elian script a writing system that combines the linearity of spelling with the free-form aspects of drawing. v t e writing systems index of language articles overview history of writing history of the alphabet graphemes scripts in unicode lists writing systems languages by writing system / by first written account undeciphered writing systems creators of writing systems types abjads alphasyllabaries / abugidas alphabets featural hieroglyph ideogrammic logographic logophonetic numeral pictographic semi-syllabaries shorthand syllabaries current examples latin alphabet cyrillic script chinese characters arabic alphabet devanagari kana hangul hebrew alphabet greek alphabet related topics pictogram ideogram v t e types of writing systems overview history of writing grapheme lists writing systems undeciphered inventors constructed languages by writing system / by first written accounts types abjads numerals aramaic hatran arabic egyptian hieroglyphs hebrew ashuri cursive rashi solitreo tifinagh mandaic manichaean nabataean old north arabian pahlavi pegon phoenician paleo-hebrew pitman shorthand proto-sinaitic psalter pahlavi punic samaritan south arabian zabur musnad sogdian syriac ?es?rang?l? ser?? ma?n??y? teeline shorthand ugaritic abugidas brahmic northern assamese bengali bhaiksuki bhujimol br?hm? devan?gar? dogri gujarati gupta gurmukh? kaithi kalinga khojki khudabadi la??? lepcha limbu mahajani meitei modi multani nagari nandinagari odia karani ?phags-pa pracalit (newar) ranjana sharada siddha? soyombo sylheti nagri takri tibetan uchen um? tirhuta tocharian zanabazar square marchen marchung pungs-chen pungs-chung drusha southern ahom balinese batak baybayin bhattiprolu buda buhid burmese chakma cham fakkham grantha goykanadi hanunuo (hanun?'o) javanese kadamba kannada karen kawi khmer khom thai kulitan lanna lao leke lampung lontara bilang-bilang makasar malayalam old maldivian dhives akuru eveyla akuru mon old mon new tai lue pallava pyu rejang rencong saurashtra shan sinhala sukhothai sundanese old sundanese tagbanwa tai le tai noi tai tham tai viet tamil tamil-brahmi tanchangya telugu thai tigalari vatteluttu kolezhuthu malayanma others boyd's syllabic shorthand canadian syllabics blackfoot d?n? syllabics fox i ge?ez gunjala gondi japanese braille jenticha kharosthi mandombe masaram gondi meroitic miao mwangwego pahawh hmong sorang sompeng thaana thomas natural shorthand warang citi alphabets linear adlam armenian avestan avoiuli bassa vah borama carian caucasian albanian coelbren coorgi?cox alphabet coptic cyrillic early deseret duployan shorthand chinook writing eclectic shorthand elbasan etruscan evenki fox ii fraser gabelsberger shorthand garay georgian asomtavruli nuskhuri mkhedruli glagolitic gothic gregg shorthand greek (archaic forms) greco-iberian alphabet hangul hanifi jenticha kaddare kayah li klingon latin beneventan blackletter carolingian minuscule fraktur gaelic insular ipa kurrent merovingian sigla s?tterlin tironian notes visigothic luo lycian lydian manchu medefaidrin molodtsov mongolian mru neo-tifinagh n'ko ogham oirat ol chiki old hungarian old italic old permic orkhon old uyghur osage osmanya pau cin hau runic anglo-saxon cipher dalecarlian elder futhark younger futhark gothic marcomannic medieval staveless sidetic shavian sorang sompeng tifinagh tolong siki vagindra visible speech vithkuqi wancho warang citi zaghawa non-linear braille maritime flags telegraph code new york point flag semaphore moon type ideograms and pictograms adinkra aztec blissymbol dongba ersu shaba emoji iconji isotype kaid? mi?kmaw mixtec new epoch notation painting nsibidi ojibwe hieroglyphs olmec siglas poveiras testerian yerkish zapotec logograms chinese family of scripts chinese characters simplified traditional oracle bone script bronze script seal script large small bird-worm hanja idu kanji ch? n?m zhuang chinese-influenced jurchen khitan large script sui tangut cuneiform akkadian assyrian elamite hittite luwian sumerian other logo-syllabic anatolian bagam cretan isthmian maya proto-elamite yi (classical) logo-consonantal demotic hieratic hieroglyphs numerals hindu-arabic abjad attic (greek) muisca roman semi-syllabaries full celtiberian northeastern iberian southeastern iberian khom redundant espanca pahawh hmong khitan small script southwest paleohispanic zhuyin fuhao sign languages aslwrite signwriting si5s stokoe notation syllabaries afaka bamum b?t? byblos canadian aboriginal cherokee cypriot cypro-minoan ditema tsa dinoko eskayan geba great lakes algonquian iban idu japanese hiragana katakana man'y?gana hentaigana s?gana jindai moji kikakui kpelle linear b linear elamite lisu loma n?shu nwagu aneke script old persian cuneiform sumerian vai woleai yi (modern) yugtun v t e braille ??????? braille cell 1829 braille international uniformity ascii braille unicode braille patterns braille scripts french-ordered albanian azerbaijani cantonese catalan chinese (mainland mandarin) (largely reassigned) czech dutch english (unified english) esperanto french german ghanaian guarani hawaiian hungarian i?upiaq ipa irish italian latvian lithuanian luxembourgish (extended to 8-dot) maltese m?ori navajo nigerian philippine polish portuguese romanian samoan slovak south african spanish taiwanese mandarin (largely reassigned) turkish vietnamese welsh yugoslav zambian nordic family estonian faroese icelandic northern sami scandinavian danish finnish greenlandic norwegian swedish russian lineage family i.e. cyrillic-mediated scripts belarusian bulgarian kazakh kyrgyz mongolian russian tatar ukrainian egyptian lineage family i.e. arabic-mediated scripts arabic persian urdu (pakistan) indian lineage family i.e. bharati braille devanagari (hindi / marathi / nepali) bengali (bangla / assamese) gujarati kannada malayalam odia punjabi sinhala tamil telugu urdu (india) other scripts amharic armenian burmese dzongkha (bhutanese) georgian greek hebrew inuktitut (reassigned vowels) khmer thai and lao (japanese vowels) tibetan reordered algerian braille (obsolete) frequency-based american braille (obsolete) independent chinese semi-syllabaries cantonese mainland chinese mandarin taiwanese mandarin two-cell chinese (shuangpin) japanese korean eight-dot luxembourgish kanji gardner?salinas braille codes (gs8) symbols in braille braille music canadian currency marks computer braille code gardner?salinas braille codes (science; gs8/gs6) international phonetic alphabet (ipa) nemeth braille code braille technology braille e-book braille embosser braille translator braille watch mountbatten brailler optical braille recognition perforation perkins brailler refreshable braille display slate and stylus braigo persons louis braille charles barbier valentin ha?y thakur vishva narain singh sabriye tenberken william bell wait organisations braille institute of america braille without borders japan braille library national braille association blindness organizations schools for the blind american printing house for the blind other tactile alphabets decapoint moon type new york point night writing vibratese related topics accessible publishing braille literacy robobraille v t e electronic writing systems emoticons emoji kaomoji iconji unicode v t e internet slang variants 3arabizi alay (indonesia) denglisch doge doggolingo fingilish (persian) greeklish gyaru-moji (japan) jejemon (philippines) leet ("1337") lolspeak / lolspeak / kitteh martian language (chinese) migux?s (portuguese) padonkaffsky jargon (russian) pseudo-chinese translit volapuk yaminjeongeum (korean) see also english internet slang (at wiktionary) sms language v t e systems science system types anatomical art biological complex complex adaptive conceptual coupled human?environment database dynamical ecological economic energy formal holarchic information legal measurement metric multi-agent nervous nonlinear operating planetary political sensory social star writing concepts doubling time leverage points limiting factor negative feedback positive feedback theoretical fields chaos theory complex systems control theory cybernetics earth system science living systems sociotechnical system systemics urban metabolism world-systems theory analysis biology dynamics ecology engineering neuroscience pharmacology psychology theory (systems thinking) scientists alexander bogdanov russell l. ackoff william ross ashby ruzena bajcsy b?la h. b?n?thy gregory bateson anthony stafford beer richard e. bellman ludwig von bertalanffy margaret boden kenneth e. boulding murray bowen kathleen carley mary cartwright c. west churchman manfred clynes george dantzig edsger w. dijkstra fred emery heinz von foerster stephanie forrest jay wright forrester barbara grosz charles a. s. hall mike jackson lydia kavraki james j. kay faina m. kirillova george klir allenna leonard edward norton lorenz niklas luhmann humberto maturana margaret mead donella meadows mihajlo d. mesarovic james grier miller radhika nagpal howard t. odum talcott parsons ilya prigogine qian xuesen anatol rapoport john seddon peter senge claude shannon katia sycara eric trist francisco varela manuela m. veloso kevin warwick norbert wiener jennifer wilby anthony wilden applications systems theory in anthropology systems theory in archaeology systems theory in political science organizations list principia cybernetica category portal commons v t e literacy learning adolescent literacy emergent literacy family literacy functional illiteracy phonics post-literacy whole language locations list of countries by literacy rate india bihar new zealand tokelau romania united states institutions international literacy association international literacy day national council of teachers of english no child left behind act people marie clay ruth johnson colvin paulo freire james paul gee griffith jones frank laubach brian street other types agricultural braille carbon computer critical cultural data diaspora ecological electracy emotional faith financial geo-literacy graph health information information literacies information and media legal media mental health multiliteracies musical numeracy object oracy power physical racial religious scientific social statistical technological transliteracy visual web related aliteracy asemic writing children's literature dick and jane dyslexia literacy test media consumption orality oral literature post-literate society reading writing writing system v t e writing and writing material enduring plant-based amate trema micrantha ficus aurea bamboo and wooden slips birch bark (betula) folding-book manuscript streblus asper broussonetia papyrifera ola leaf (corypha umbraculifera) palm leaf (borassus) paper papyrus (cyperus papyrus) other materials animal skin parchment vellum ink metals intaglio stamping oracle bone photographic film stone geoglyph petroglyph tablets clay tablet wax tablet textile printing silk text impermanent electronic paper screen skywriting carrier objects book codex notebook electronic media hu/shaku (baton) inscription bas-relief manuscript palimpsest microform scroll sign related topics writing systems history of writing list of writing systems ktav stam authority control national libraries germany japan czech republic other historical dictionary of switzerland retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=writing_system&oldid=1079499822" categories: writing writing systems typography hidden categories: harv and sfn no-target errors articles with short description short description is different from wikidata articles needing additional references from june 2015 all articles needing additional references all articles lacking reliable references articles lacking reliable references from june 2020 all articles with unsourced statements articles with unsourced statements from july 2020 articles with unsourced statements from january 2012 articles needing additional references from july 2020 wikipedia articles needing clarification from june 2016 cs1 german-language sources (de) wikipedia external links cleanup from june 2020 wikipedia spam cleanup from june 2020 articles with gnd identifiers articles with ndl identifiers articles with nkc identifiers articles with hds identifiers navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk english views read edit view history more search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikimedia commons wikisource languages afrikaans alemannisch ???? ??????? aragon?s ??????? asturianu ???? aymar aru az?rbaycanca ?????? ????? b?n-l?m-g? ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????) ??????? bikol central ????????? boarisch bosanski brezhoneg catal? ??????? cebuano ?e?tina cymraeg dansk deutsch din? bizaad eesti ???????? espa?ol esperanto euskara ????? fran?ais frysk gaelg galego ???????? ??? ??????? ?????? hrvatski ilokano bahasa indonesia ?slenska italiano ????? jawa ????? ????????-??????? ??????? ??????? kiswahili kurd? ladin latga?u latina latvie?u l?tzebuergesch lietuvi? limburgs lingua franca nova livvinkarjala madhur? ?????? ?????????? ?????? ????? ????????? ???? ???????? bahasa melayu ???? ??? nederlands ?????? ????? ???? ??? ??????? nordfriisk norsk bokm?l norsk nynorsk nouormand occitan o?zbekcha/??????? ?????? ?????? picard polski portugu?s rom?n? runa simi ??????? ????????? scots shqip ????? simple english ???? sloven?ina sloven??ina ????? ?????? / srpski srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? sunda suomi svenska tagalog ????? ???????/tatar?a ??? ?????? ???? t?rk?e ?????????? ???? vahcuengh ti?ng vi?t ?? winaray ?? ?????? ?? zazaki ?? edit links this page was last edited on 27 march 2022, at 03:33 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license 3.0; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
